## Regulations, standards and legislation
### General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
GDPR is a regulation in EU law on data protection and privacy in the Europe Union. Its aim is to enhance individual's control and rights over their personal data and to simplify the regulatory environment for international business.
### National, territory or state laws
#### Privacy Act of 1974
Affects U.S. Government computer systems that collects, stores, uses or disseminates personally identifiable information.
#### Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
Affects healthcare providers, facilities, insurance companies and medical data clearing houses.
#### Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX)
Affects publicly-traded U.S. corporations and requires certain accounting methods and financial reporting requirements.
#### Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA)
Affects banks, mortgage, companies, loan offices, insurance companies, investment companies and credit card providers.
#### Federal Information Security Management (FISMA) Act of 2002
### Help America Vote Act (HAVA) of 2002
Provides regulations that govern the security, confidetiality and integrity of the personal information collected, stored or processed during the election and voting process.
Requires each agency to develop, document and implement an agency-wide information systems security program to protect their data.
### Payment Card Industy Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)
PCI DSS is a information security standard for organizations that handle branded credit cards from the major card schemes. The PCI standard is mandated by the card brands but administered by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council. The standard was created to increase controls around cardholder data to reduce credit card frauds.

## Key frameworks
### Center for Internet Security
Consensus-developed secure configuration guidelines for hardening (benchmarks) and prescriptive, prioritized and simplified sets of cybersecurity best practices (configuration guides).
### National Institute of Standards and Technologies (NIST) Risk Management Framework (RMF)/Cybersecurity Framework (CSF)
#### RMF
It provides a comprehensive, flexible, repeatable and measurable 7-step process that any organization can use to manage information security and privacy risk for organizations and systems and links to a suite of NIST standards and guidelines to support implementation of risk management programs to meet the requirements of the Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA).
#### CSF
A set of industry standards, guidelines and best practices created by NIST to help organizations manage and mitigate cybersecurity risks. It is made of five categories: Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond and Recover.
### International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 27001/27002/27701/31000
#### ISO 27001
An international standard that details requirements for establishing, implementing, maintaining and continually improving an information security management system (ISMS)
#### ISO 27002
An international standard that provides best practice recommendations on information security controls for use by those responsible for initiating, implementing or maintaining information security management systems (ISMS)
#### ISO 27701
An international standard that act as a privacy extension to the ISO 27001 to enhance the existing Information Security Management System (ISMS) with additional requirements in order to establish, implement, maintain and continually improve a Privacy Information Management System (PIMS).
#### ISO 31000
An international standard for enterprise risk management that provides a universally recognized paradigm for practitioners and companies employing risk management processes to replace the myriad of existing standards, methodologies and paradigms that differed between industries, subject matters and regions.
### SSAE SOC 2 Type I/II
A suite of reports produced during an audit which is used by service organizations to issue validated reports of internal controls over those information systems to the users of those services.
### Cloud Security Alliance (CSA)
Is a not-for-profit organization with the mission to promote the use of best practices for providing security assurance within cloud computing and to pŕovide education on the uses of cloud computing to help secure all other forms of computing.
### CSA Cloud control matrix
The CSA Cloud Controls Matrix (CCM) is a cybersecurity control framework for cloud computing. It is composed of 197 control objectives that are structured in 17 domains covering all key aspects of cloud technology.
### CSA Reference Architecture
A methodology and a set of tools that enable security architects, enterprise architects and risk management professionals to leverage a common set of solutions that fulfill their common needs to be able to assess where their internal IT and their cloud provider are in terms of security capabilities and to plan a roadmap to meet the security needs of their business.

## References 
- https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/research/cloud-controls-matrix/
