## Personnel
### Acceptable Use Policy (AUP)
Acceptable Use Policy is a set of rules applied by the owner, creator or administrator that restricts the ways in which the network, website or system may be used and set guidelines as to how it should be used. For exemple, a organization might have a policy that says you can't access porngraphy sites, games or social media while at work.
### Job rotation
Different user are trained to perform the tasks of the same position to help prevent and identify fraud that could occour if only one employee had the job.
### Mandatory vacation
Mandatory vacation requires that every employee take a vacation at some point during the year. It forces somebody else to replace the job the employee was doing and it helps to identify usual activity, such as fraud or abuse, if it was occouring.
### Separation of duties
Separation of duties is the concept of having more than one person required to complet a task. It is an administrative control to prevent fraud, sabotage, theft, misuse of information and other security compromises. For exemple, to buy something or contract a new service, one person need to do the request and another has to approve.
### Least privilege
The principle of least privilege states that a subject should be given only those privileges needed for it to complete its task.
### Clean desk space
A clean desk policy involves removing any sensitive business information from your desk everyday. This includes: USB sticks, notebooks, business cards and printed documents.
### Social media analysis
It is important to train the employees to not share organization's confidential information on social medias.
### Onboarding and Offboarding
Dictates what type of things need to be done when a employee is hired, fired or quits. For example, create or delete accounts, building access, permissions in specific systems.
### User training
User security awareness training helps every employee in your organization recognize, avoid, and report potential threats that can compromise critical data and systems, including phishing, malware, ransonware, and spyware.

## Third-party risk management
### Business partners
A business partnership agreement, also known as a partnership contract or articles of partnership, is a legally binding document that determines the roles and responsabilities between two individuals or entities acting as business partners.
### Service-Level Agreement (SLA)
Is a commitment between a service provider and a client. Particular aspects of the service (quality, availability, responsibilities) are agreed between the service provider and the service user. SLAs are used both in contractual relation between companies as well as in service relation between different areas of the same organization.
### Memorandum of Understanding
Is a type of agreement between at least two parties that expresses a convergence of will between the parties, indicating an intended common line of action. It is often used either in cases where the parties do not imply a legal commitment or in situations where the parties cannot create a legally enforceable agreement.
### Business Partnership Agreement (BPA)
Is a legally binding document that outlines details about business operations, ownership stake, financial and decision-making.
### End of Life (EOL)
An end-of-life product is a product at the end of the product lifecycle which prevents users from receiving updates, indicating that the product is at the end of its useful life. At this stage, a vendor stops the marketing, selling, or provision parts, services or software updates for the product.
### End of service life (EOSL)
End of service life (EOSL) or end of support is when the manufactorer quits selling a piece of equipment and in most cases no longer provides maintenance services or updates after a certain date. Basically, EOSL is the final phase of a piece of an equipment's lifecycle.
### Non-disclosure Agreement (NDA)
Is a legal contract between at least two parties that outlines confidential information that they wish to share with one another for certain purposes, but cannot be shared outside of the relationship.

## Data
### Classification
Data classification is the process of organizing data by relevant categories based on the value to the organization and the sensitivity of the information if it were to be disclosed.

## Credential policies
### Personnel
An account associated with a specific person, that is not shared with someone else.
### Service accounts
Service accounts are a digital identity used by an app or service to interact with other apps or the operating system.

## Organizational policies
### Change management
Is a collective term for all approaches to prepare, support and help individual, teams and organizations in making organizational change. It includes methods that redirect or redefine the use of resources, business process, budget allocations or other modes of operation that significantly change a company or organization.

## References
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Change_management
- https://www.barracuda.com/glossary/user-security-awareness
- https://blog.usecure.io/what-is-a-clean-desk-policy-and-should-my-company-have-it
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/End-of-life_product
- https://www.contractscounsel.com/t/us/business-partnership-agreement
- https://senhasegura.com/credential-management/
- https://www.professormesser.com/security-plus/sy0-601/sy0-601-video/credential-policies/
- https://theremigroup.com/eol-vs-eosl/
