## Personnel
### Acceptable Use Policy (AUP)
Acceptable Use Policy is a set of rules applied by the owner, creator or administrator that restricts the ways in which the network, website or system may be used and set guidelines as to how it should be used. For exemple, a organization might have a policy that says you can't access porngraphy sites, games or social media while at work.
### Job rotation
Different user are trained to perform the tasks of the same position to help prevent and identify fraud that could occour if only one employee had the job.
### Mandatory vacation
Mandatory vacation requires that every employee take a vacation at some point during the year. It forces somebody else to replace the job the employee was doing and it helps to identify usual activity, such as fraud or abuse, if it was occouring.
### Separation of duties
Separation of duties is the concept of having more than one person required to complet a task. It is an administrative control to prevent fraud, sabotage, theft, misuse of information and other security compromises. For exemple, to buy something or contract a new service, one person need to do the request and another has to approve.
### Onboarding and Offboarding
Dictates what type of things need to be done when a employee is hired, fired or quits. For example, create or delete accounts, building access, permissions in specific systems.

## Data
### Classification
Data classification is the process of organizing data by relevant categories based on the value to the organization and the sensitivity of the information if it were to be disclosed.
