## Notification of breaches
Security breach notification laws require individuals or entities affected by a data breach, unauthorized access to data, to notify their costumers and other parties about the breach, as well as take specific steps to remedy the situation based on state legislature. One goal is to allow individuals a chance to mitigate risks against data breaches. Another goal is to promote company incentive to strengthen data security.
### Escalation
First it needs a internal escalation process to the right people inside the company be notified about the data breach. Then external escalation may be needed, to especialized third parties that can help to find and stop active data breach.
### Public notifications and disclosures
After the inital phases of escalation is over, then the data breach can be notified to the public in accord to the laws.
## Data types
### Public
Has no impact to the company if released and is often posted in the open-source environment.
### Private Data
Contains data that should only be used within the organization.
### Sensitive
Sensitive data is any information that might result in loss of an advantage or level of security if disclosed to a unauthorized person. It might have a minimal impact if released.
### Confidential
Highest classification level that contains items such as trade secrets, intellectual property data, source code and other types that would seriously affect the bussiness if disclosed.
### Critical
It is data that should always be available and is very important to the organization
### Proprietary
It is data that is the property of an organization and usually this type of data is unique to an organization.
### Personal Identifiable Information (PII)
Is any data that could potentially identify a specific individual. Any information that can be used either by itself or in combination with some other data to distinguish one person from another and can be used to deanonymize previously anonymous data is considered Personal Identifiable Information (PII). Some exemples of PII are full name, driver's license, date of birth, place of birth, biometric data, financial account numbers, address, email address, social media username and others.
### Health information
It is health data associated with an individual, such as health status, health care records and payment for health care.
### Financial information
It is internal company financial information.
### Government data
Usually open data, but it can also be data transfered between government entities or data that may be protected by law.
### Customer data
Data associated with customers, it may include user-specific datails and legal handling requirements
## Roles and responsibilities
### Data owners
A senior (executive) role with ultimate responsibility for maintaining the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the information asset. The data owner is responsible for labeling the asset and ensuring that it is protected with appropriate controls across different systems and business activities.
### Data controller
In GDPR and other privacy laws, the data controller has the most responsibility when it comes to protecting the privacy and rights of the data's subject, such as the user of a website. Simply put, the data controller controls the procedures and purpose of data usage. In short, the data controller will be the one to dictate how and why data is going to be used by the organization.
### Data processor
A data processor simply processes any data that the data controller gives them. For example, the data processor might be a third-party company that the data controller chose to use and process the data. The third-party data processor does not own the data that they process nor do they control it. This means that the data processor will not be able to change the purpose and the means in which the data is used. Furthermore, data processors are bound by the instructions given by the data controller.
### Data steward
A role focused on the quality of the data and associated metadata. Data steward is responsible for the data content, context, associated business rules and what is stored in a data field.
### Data custodian
A role responsible for handling the management of the system on which the data assets are stored. Data custodian is responsible for the safe custody, transport, storage, implementation of the business rules, technical environment and database structure.

## Privacy enhancing technologies
### Data minimization
The principle of data minimization means that a data controller should limit the collection of personal information to what is directly relevant and necessary to accomplish a specified purpose.
### Data masking
Data masking is the process of modifying sensitive data in such a way that is of no or little value to unauthorized intruders while still being usable by software or authorized personnel.
### Data tokenization
Data tokenization is the process of replacing actual sensitive data elements with non-sensitive data elements that have no exploitable value for data security purposes. Security-sensitive applications use tokenization to replace sensitive data, such as Personally Identifiable Information (PII) or Protected Health Information (PHI), with tokens to reduce security risks. 
### Anonymization
Data anonymization is a type of information sanitization whose intent is privacy protection. It is the process of removing personally identifiable information from datasets, so that the people whom the data describe remain anonymous.
### Pseudo-anonymization
It is a data management and de-identification procedure by which personally identifiable information fields within a data record are replaced by one or more artificial identifiers, or pseudonyms. A single pseudonyms for each replaced field or collection of replaced fields makes the data record less identifiable while remaining suitable for data analysis and data processing. Pseudonymized data can be restored to its original state with the addition of information which allows individuals to be re-identified.

## References
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security_breach_notification_laws
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pseudonymization
- https://digitalguardian.com/blog/data-controller-vs-data-processor-whats-difference
