## Social Engineering
Social engineering is the psychological manipulation of people into revealing confidential information or perform actions that may not be what they want. Some common social engineering techniques are listed below.

### Phishing
Phishing is a type of social engineering in which a attacker sends a fraudulent message (masquerede as a trusted entity) to a user. The recipient is then tricked into clicking a malicious link, which can lead to the revealing of sensitive data, installation of a malware or things like that.
### Smishing
Smishing is a phishing cybersecurity attack carried out over mobile text messaging, algo known as SMS phishing.
### Vishing
Voice phishing, or vishing, is the use of telephony to conduct phishing attacks.

### Spam
Spam is the abuse of electronic messaging systems, most commonly through email, to send multiple unsolicited messages to large number of recipients for the purpose of comercial advertising, for the purpose of non-comercial proselytizing, for any prohibited purpose (especially the fraudulent purpose of phishing) or simply sending the same message over and over to the same user. Spammers often exploit a company's open mail relays to send their messages.

### Spam over instant messaging (SPIM)
SPIM is the abuse of instant messaging systems. It works just like spam, the only difference is the system used to send the messages. It will use things like text messages, social media chats or game chats.

### Spear phishing
It is a phishing method that targets specific individuals or groups within an organization.

### Pharming
Pharming is a cyber attack intended to redirect a website's traffic to another, fake site by installing a malicious program on the computer. Pharming can be conducted either by changing the hosts file on a victim's computer or by exploitation of a vulnerability in DNS server software.
### Whaling
A specific kind of phishing that targets high-ranking members of organizations.

### Hoax
A hoax is a message warning the recipients of non-existent computer virus threat. This might come as a email, a website pop-up window or a phone call. Normally it is part of something as somebody's game, somebody think it is a joke or someone trying to trick them out of money.

### Watering hole attack
Is an attack in which the attacker guesses or observes the websites a organization often uses and infects one or more of them. The attacker knows that will be a lot of potential victims and, eventually, some member of the targeted group will become infected.

### Typosquatting
Is when an attacker register a common misspelling of another organization's domain as their own. It relies on typos mistakes by users when inputting a website address into the web browser. Tipically, it involves tricking users into visiting a malicious website and entering sensitive data into the fake site.

### Pretexting
Pretexting is a type of social engineering attack that involves a situation, or pretext, created by an attacker in order to lure a victim into a vulnerable situation an to trick them into giving private information, specifically information that the victim would tipically not give outside the context of the pretext.

### Principles (reasons for effectiveness)
#### Authority
The attacker may pose as authority to increase the likelihood of adherence from the victim.
#### Consensus
People will do things that they see other people are doing.
#### Scarcity
Perceived scarcity will generate demand. The common advertising phrase "while supplies last" capitalizes on a sense of scarcity.
#### Urgency
Attacker uses urgency as a time-based psychological principle of social engineering. For example, saying offers are available for a "limited time only" encourages sales through a sense of urgency. 

## References
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pharming
- https://www.trendmicro.com/vinfo/us/security/definition/spear-phishing
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pretexting
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voice_phishing
- https://www.kaspersky.com/resource-center/threats/what-is-smishing-and-how-to-defend-against-it
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/whaling
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_engineering_(security)#Six_key_principles
