## Malware
Malware, short for "malicious software", is a software designed to disrupt a computer or network, steal information, spy or gain unauthorized access to a system. Some common types of malwares are listed below.

### Ransomware
Malware that prevents you from accessing your computer files, system or network and demands you pay a ransom for their return. Usually, it encrypts the victim's files and makes the private key available to the victim only after the ransom is paid.

### Trojans
Trojan is a malware that looks legitimate but misleads users of its true intent. The term is derived from the Ancient Greek story of the deceptive Trojan horse. Trojans can perform the desired functions that the user is expecting, but it will also perform malicious functions.

### Worms
A computer worm is a malware that is able to replicate itself without the user interaction in order to spread to other computers. Worms self-replicate and spread without user's consent or action, this occour because worms take advantages of security failures in operating systems and applications. A worm can slow down the victim system because its use of the computer power.

### Potentially Unwanted Programs (PUPs)
A PUP (Potentially Unwanted Program) is software that's bundled into download packages and offers no benefits for users. PUPs are usually viewed as unwated programs because they offer few or no benefits and can serve as adware or spyware.

### Fileless malware
Fileless malware is a type of malicious software that uses legitimate programs to infect a computer. It does not rely on files and cannot be detected by signature-based security softwares. Being fileless means that the malware is executed directly as a script or a small piece of shell code that creates a process in the system memory, without having to use the local file system, what makes it very resistent to forensics analysis techniques too.

### Command and Control
A command and control attack is a component of a malware attack used to establish a remote covert channel between a compromised host and the attacker's server. The attacker's server is often referred to as a command and control server, C2 server, or C & C server. This attack server exploits the backdoor created to carry out different types of malicious activities on the victim's computer, for example, data exfiltration through DNS tunneling.

### Botnet and zombies
A botnet is a collection of compromised computers under the control of master node. Zombies are the computers that are under control of some attacker and the attacker has the command and control node. The zombies of a botnet usually is used as pivot point to do attacks through the victim machine, like being part of Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS).

### Logic bombs
It is a piece of malicious code that's intentionally and secretly inserted into a computer network, operating system or software application. It lies dormant until a specific condition occours, when the conditions are met that wiil set off a malicious function. For example, a logic bomb could delete certain company's important files (malicious function) when an certain employee is fired (specific condition). 

### Spyware
It's a malware that is installed in a system and gain access to sensitive informations without consent and sends this informations to other parties, some malicious.

### Keyloggers
A software that captures keystrokes made by the victim that is unaware that their actions are being monitored and send the informations to the attacker.

### Remote Access Trojan (RAT)
A trojan that remotely access infected resources. Trojans of this type are among the most dangerous because they open up all kinds of opportunities for remote control of the compromised system. RAT capabilities usually include program installation and removal, file manipulation, reading data from the keyboard, webcam hijacking, and clipboard monitoring.

### Rootkit
A rootkit is a software designed to gain administrative level control over a system and masks its existence or others softwares existences. Normally rootkits resides in the kernel, being invisible to the operating system and almost impossible to eliminate them without the reinstallation of the operating system. DLL injections and driver manipulations are techniques commonly used by rootkits to maintain their persistent control.

### Backdoor
A backdoor is a malware that bypass normal authentication procedures to access a system. An attacker can use the backdoor to remote access the system and steal personal and financial data, install additional malware and hijack devices. Backdoor installation is achieved by taking advantage of a vulnerability in the system or application.

### Virus
Malicious code that runs on a machine without the user knowledge and infects the computer when executed. Viruses requires user action in order to reproduce and spread. It can be separeted in 10 different types.
#### Boot sector virus
Is a virus that infects the boot partition or the Master Boot Record (MBR) of hard disk. The boot sector is a reserved section of a disk that contains the code and data needed to start the operating system. The malware is executed before the security software can be executed.
#### Macro virus
Virus embedded into a document via macro code and is executed when the document is opened by the user. Common in Word or Excel documents.
#### Program virus
Program virus infect a executable or application. It install itself into a program and is loaded every time you opened up the program.
#### Multipartite virus
Virus that combines boot and program viruses to first attach itself to the boot sector and system files before attacking other files on the computer.
#### Encrypted
Virus that use a cipher to encrypt the contents of itself to avoid detection by antivirus software.
#### Polymorphic virus
Virus that uses a polymorphic engine to mutate while keeping the original algorithm intact. In other words, the code changes itself every time it runs, but the function of the code will not change. This is done by altering the decryption module to avoid detection.
#### Metamorphic virus
Virus that is able to rewrite itself entirely before it attempts to infect a file. This is an advanced version of a polymorphic virus.
#### Stealth virus
Virus that uses various different techniques to avoid detection by antivirus software. Encrypted, polymorphic and metamorphic virus are examples of stealth virus.
#### Armored virus
Virus that is designed to be very difficult to reverse engineer, it has a layer of protection to confuse a person or a program analyzing it. It is overly large, because it contais a large amount of misleading logic in order to foil attempts to figure out its mission.
#### Hoax
A hoax is not actually a virus, it is a message warning the recipients of non-existent computer virus threat. This might come as a email, a website pop-up window or a phone call. Normally it is part of something as somebody's game, somebody think it is a joke or someone trying to trick them out of money.

## Password attacks
### Spraying 
It is a type of brute force attack where a malicious actor attempts the same password on many accounts before moving on to another one and repeating the process with another password.
### Dictionary
A dictionary attack is an attack using a restricted subset of a keyspace to defeat a cipher or authentication mechanism by trying to determine its decryption key or passphrase, sometimes trying thousands or millions of likely possibilities often obtained from lists of past security breaches.
### Brute force
It consists of an attacker submitting many passwords with the hope of eventually guessing correctly.The attacker sistematically checks all possible passwords until the correct one is found.
#### Offline
In case of an offline attack, the attacker has access to the encrypted material or a password hash and tries different key without the risk of discovery or interference.
#### Online
In a online attack, the attacker needs to interact with a target system. In such cases, the system can counteract the attack by, for example, limiting the number of attempts that a password can be tried, introducing time delays between successives attempts, increasing the answer's complexity (by requiring a CAPTCHA or verification code sent to a cell phone), and/or locking accounts out after reaching a threshold of unsuccessful logon attempts. Introducing the second factor of authentication is another countermeasure. 
### Rainbow table
An attacker gets access to the database table where hashes of passwords are stored. They then use a rainbow table of pre-computed hash chains to attempt to look up the original password. Once the original password corresponding to the hash is obtained, the attacker uses the original password to gain access to the system.
### Plaintext/unencrypted
Password management issues occur when a password is stored in plaintext in a application's properties, configuration file, or memory. Storing a password in a configuration file allows anyone who can read the file access to the password-protected resource.

## Physical attacks
### Malicious Universal Serial Bus (USB) cable
USB devices may have various security flaws (e.g., BadUSB) that allows malicious code to modify the USB device basic input/output system (BIOS), and execute arbitrary code on an attached host computer system. For example, a USB memory device may register as a USB keyboard to the operating system (OS) in the host computer system, thereby gaining the ability to enter arbitrary commands to the host computer system.
### Malicious flash drive
Attacker can use USB drives to infect other computers with malware that can detect when the USB drive is plugged into a computer. The malware then downloads malicious code onto the drive. When the USB drive is plugged to another computer, the malware infects the computer.
### Card cloning
It refers to the process of replicating the digital information stored in debt or credit cards and is usually performed with the intention of committing fraud.
### Skimming
The unauthorized use of a reader to read tags without the authorization or knowledge of tag's owner or the individual in possession of the tag.

## Adversarial Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Adversarial machine learning is the study of the attacks on machine learning algorithms, and of the defenses against such attacks.
### Tainted training data for machine learning (ML)
One of the known techniques to compromise machine learning systems is to target the data used to train the models. Called data poisoning, this technique involves an attacker inserting corrupt data in the training dataset to compromise a target machine learning model during training.
### Security of machine learning algorithms
Machine learning risks includes data poisoning, manipulation of online systems, transfer learning attack, fooling the system, data privacy and confidentiality.

## Supply-chain attacks
Supply chain attacks are an emerging kind of threat that target software developers and suppliers. The goal is to access source codes, build processes, or update mechanisms by infecting legitimate apps to distribute malware.

## Cryptographic attacks
### Birthday attack
A birthday attack is a type of cryptographic attack that exploits the mathematics behind the birthday problem in probability theory. The attack depends on the higher likelihood of collisions found between random attack attempts and a fixed degree of permutations.
### Collision
A collision attack on a cryptographic hash tries to find two inputs producing the same hash value, a hash collision.
### Downgrade
A protocol or its implementation supports interaction between multiple actors and allows those actors to negociate which algorithm should be used as a protection mechanism such as encryption or authentication, but it does not select the strongest algorithm that is available to both parties.

## References
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dictionary_attack
- https://capec.mitre.org/data/definitions/55.html
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collision_attack
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Birthday_attack
- https://www.avg.com/en/signal/what-is-a-pup
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adversarial_machine_learning
- https://venturebeat.com/ai/adversarial-machine-learning-underrated-threat-data-poisoning/
- https://towardsdatascience.com/5-common-machine-learning-security-risks-and-how-to-overcome-them-2f90115a699d
- https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/757.html
- https://www.dnsfilter.com/blog/c2-server-command-and-control-attack
- https://encyclopedia.kaspersky.com/glossary/remote-access-trojan-rat/
- https://doubleoctopus.com/security-wiki/threats-and-tools/brute-force-attack/
- https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/256.html
- https://patents.google.com/patent/US9990325B2/en
- https://www.cisa.gov/uscert/ncas/tips/ST08-001
- https://www.datavisor.com/wiki/card-cloning-fraud/
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/skimming
- https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/security/intelligence/supply-chain-malware?view=o365-worldwide
