## Privelege escalation
Occurs when an attacker is able to exploit a design flaw, a bug or a configuration oversight in a operating system or software application to gain illicit access of elavated rights or privileges, beyond what is intended or entitled for a user. Usually the goal is to gain administration or root levels privileges to perform unauthorized action.

## Cross-site scripting
Also known as XSS, Cross-site scripting attacks are a type of injection, in which malicious scripts are injected into otherwise benign and trusted websites. Flaws that allow these attacks to succeed are quite widespread and occour anywhere a web application uses input from a user within the output it generates without validating or encoding it. The malicious script can access any cookies, session tokens or other sensitive information retained by the browser and used with that site.

## Injections
An injection flaw is a vulnerability which allows an attacker to relay malicious code through an application to another system. This can include compromising both backend systems as well as other clients connected to the vulnerable application.
### Structured Query Language (SQL)
An SQL injection attack consists of insertion or "injection" of a SQL query via the input data from the client to the application. A successful SQL injection exploit can read sensitive data from the database, modify database data (insert/update/delete), execute administration operations on the database (such as shutdown the DBMS), recover the content of a given file present on the DBMS filesystem and in some cases issue commands to the operating system.
### Extensible Markup Language (XML)
XML injection vulnerabilities arises when user input is inserted into a server-side XML document in an unsafe way. It may be possible to use XML metacharacters to modify the structure of the resulting XML. Depending on the function in which the XML is used, it may be possible to interfere with the application's logic, to perform unauthorized actions or access sensitive data. The application should validate or sanitize user input before incorporating it into an XML document.

## Pointer/object dereference
A NULL pointer dereference occurs when the application dereferences a pointer that it expects to be valid, but is NULL, typically causing a crash or exit. NULL pointer dereference issues can occur through a number of flaws, including race conditions and simple programming omissions.

## Directory traversal
Also known as path traversal attack, it aims to access files and directories that are stored outside the web root folder. By manipulating variables that reference files with "../" sequences and its variations or by using absolute file paths, it may be possible to access arbitrary files and directories stored on file system including application source code or configuration and critical system files.

## Buffer overflows
A buffer overflow conditions exists when a program attempts to put more data in a buffer than it can hold or when a program attempts to put data in a memory area past a buffer. In this case, a buffer is a sequential section of memory allocated to contain anything from a character string to an arrya of integers. Writing outside the bounds of a block allocated memory can corrupt data, crash the program or cause the execution of malicious code.

## Race conditions
The program contains a code sequence that can run concurrently with other code, and the code sequence requires temporary, exclusive access to a shared resource, but a timing window exists in which the shared resource can be modified by another code sequence that is operating concurrently.
### Time of check/time of use
The software checks the state of resource before using that resource, but the resource's state can change between the check and the use in a way that invalidates the results of the check. This can cause the software to perform invalid actions when the resources is in an unexpected state. This weakness can be security-relevant when an attacker can influence the state of the resource between check and use. This can happen with shared resources such as files, memory or even variables in multithreaded programs.

## Request forgeries
### Cross-site
Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) is an attack the forces an end user to execute unwanted actions on a web application in which they're currently authenticated. With a little help of social engineering (such as sending a link via email or chat), an attacker may trick the users of a web application into executing actions of the attacker's choosing. If the victim is a normal user, a successful CSRF attack can force the user to perform state changing requests like tranferring funds, changing their email address and so forth. If the victim is an administrative account, CSRF can compromise the entire web application.

## References
- https://owasp.org/www-community/vulnerabilities/Buffer_Overflow
- https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/xss/
- https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/csrf
- https://owasp.org/www-community/Injection_Flaws
- https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/362.html
- https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/476.html
- https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/367.html
