## Wireless
### Evil twin
An evil twin is a fraudulent Wi-Fi access point that appear to be legitimate (usually with the same SSID or similar to the legitimate Wi-Fi), but is set up to eavesdrop on wireless communications. The evil twin is the wireless LAN equivalent of the phishing scam.
### Rogue Access Point
A rogue access point is a wireless access point (WAP) that has been installed on a secure network without explicit authorization from a local network administrator, whether added by a well-meaning employee or by malicious attacker.
### Bluesnarfing
Bluesnarfing is the unauthorized access of information from a wireless device through a bluetooth connection, often between phones, desktops and laptops.
### Bluejacking
Bluejacking is the sending of unsolicited messages over bluetooth to bluetooth-enabled devices such as mobile phone or laptop computers.
### Disassociation
Attack that targets an individual client connected to a wireless network, forces it offline by sending deauthentication packets to it and then captures the handshake that the client makes when it attempts to reconnect. It is used as part of an attack on WPA/WPA2.
### Jamming
Intentional radio frequency interference targeting a wireless network to cause a denial of service.
### Radio Frequency Identification (RFID)
It uses electromagnetic fields in radio frequency to automatically identify and track tags attached to objects. An RFID system consists of a tyny radio transponder, a radio receiver and transmitter.
### Near-Field Communication (NFC)
Is a set of communications protocols that enables communication between two electronic devices over a distance of 4 cm or less. 

## On-path attack (previously known as man-in-the-middle attack/man-in-the-browser attack)
Occurs when an attacker is between the sender and the receiver communication and is able to intercept confidential data and manipulate the flow of informations. A common way used by attackers to intecept data is setting up trap Wi-Fi hotspots without password protection and with the same name of a trusted organization, so if someone connects to the attacker Wi-Fi all data will pass through the attackers' machine.

## Layer 2 attacks
### Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) poisoning
ARP poisoning is an attack in which an attacker exploit the Address Resolution Protocol to disrupt, redirect or spy the traffic in a local area network.
### Media Access Control (MAC) flooding
A cyber attack aimed at compromising data transmitted to a device that is connected to a network switch. The method is based on overflowing the MAC address table for devices and their corresponding network segments. This database is necessary for more accurate routing of packets, allowing selective broadcasting to clients on the switch.
An attacker can send a large number of frames containing fake network identifiers to the switch, and flood the entire MAC address table with them. In this case, a legitimate client’s request is relayed to all segments of the network, and can be intercepted by an attacker.
### MAC cloning
Also known as MAC spoofing, it is a technique for changing factory-assigned Media Access Control address of a network interface on a network device. The MAC address that is hard-coded on a network interface controller cannot be changed. However, many drivers allow the MAC address to be changed.


## Domain Name System (DNS)
### DNS poisoning
It is an attack in which a corrupt Domain Name System data is introduced into the DNS resolver's cache, causing the name server to return an incorrect IP address, redirecting the traffic toward fake web servers and phishing websites.

## Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS)
A DDoS attack occours when multiple machines (ussually infected/compromised) are operating together to flood a network server with traffic, causing a denial of service (DoS).
### Operational technology
It is the hardware and software that detects or causes a change, through the direct monitoring and/or control of industrial equipament, assets, processes and events. So a denial of service in this case would be the operational technologies stopping operation.

## Malicious code or script execution
Malicious code is the term used to describe any code in any part of a software system or script that is intended to cause undesired effects, security breaches or damage to a system. Malicious code is an application security threat that cannot be efficiently controlled by conventional antivirus software alone.
## Macros
A virus that attaches itself to documents and uses the macro programming capabilities of the document's application to execute and propagate.

## References
- https://www.cisa.gov/uscert/ncas/tips/ST04-015
- https://www.keyfactor.com/blog/what-is-dns-poisoning-and-dns-spoofing/
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNS_spoofing
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operational_technology
- https://encyclopedia.kaspersky.com/glossary/mac-flooding/
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MAC_spoofing
- https://www.veracode.com/security/malicious-code
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/macro_virus
