## Actors and Threats
### Advanced Persistent Threat (APT)
An Advanced Persistent Threat is a highly trained and stealthy threat actor, often a nation state or funded by nations states, that gains unauthorized access to a computer network and remains undetected by a long period of time. The motivations are normally political or economic.

### Insider threats
Insider threat is the potential for an insider (a person who has or had authorized access to organization's resources)  to use their authorized access or understanding of an organization to harm that organization. This harm can include malicious, complacent or unintentional acts that negatively affect the integrity, confidentiality or availability of the organization, its data, personnel, or facilities.

### State actors
A nation-state threat actor is a government sponsored group that forcefully targets and gains illicit access to the networks of other governments or to industry groups to steal, damage, and/or change information.

### Hacktivists
Hackers who are driven by political agendas or social change. Some well-known network of hacktivists are Anonymous and WikiLeaks.

### Script Kiddies
Unskilled hackers that only uses scripts, programs and tools written by others to attack computer systems and networks.

### Criminal Syndicates
They are the organized crime, hackers that is mostly motivated by money and use high level techniques. Well-funded hacking projects to make lots of money. 

### Hackers
#### Unauthorized
Also known as a **Black Hat**, is a malicious hacker that attempts to break into a company's system without permission to do so, normally with the intention of disrupt the system, steal or tamper information.
#### Authorized
Also known as a **White Hat**, is a ethical hacker that attempts to break into a company's system with permission to do so, normally requested by the company to test the security of the system.
#### Semi-authorized
Is a hacker that finds vulnerabilities in a system, but do not exploit these vulnerabilities.
### Shadow IT
Shadow IT is the use of IT-related hardware or software by a department or individual without the knowledge of the IT or security group within the organization. It can encompass cloud services, software, and hardware.
### Competitors
They are competitors companies/organizations and usually aims to bring your systems down.

## Attributes of actors
### Internal/external
With external threat actors, no trust or privilege previously exists, while with internal or partner actors, some level of trust or privilege has previously existed.
### Level of sophistication/capability
The level of sophistication is an important factor in the determination of the risk of a threat actor. Highly sophisticated threat actors are more likely to be successful if an attack is launched.
### Resources/funding
Resources and funding determines how well a threat actor is able to support the attack monetarily or with the needed equipment and software.
### Intent/motivation
The intent or motivation of an actor may be tied to the political, ideological or personal goals of the attacker.

## Vectors
Threat vectors are the means used to gain unauthorized access to a system.
### Direct access
It may be accessing the system directly due lack of security practices.
### Wireless
It may be through a vulnerability in the wireless network.
### Email
It may be stoling credentials through a phishing caimpaign via email.
### Supply chain
It may be a counterfeited device from a third-party used in your network.
### Social media
It may be fooling your employess using social engineering.
### Removable media
It may be inserting a flash drive in a computer system in your network.
### Cloud
It may be exploiting a vulnerability in your cloud environment.


## Threat intelligence sources
### Open-Source Intelligence (OSINT)
OSINT is the collection and analysis of open-source data and informations to produce actionable intelligence. The sources can be things like social media, websites or public government data.
### Closed or Proprietary
Closed/Proprietary threat intelligence is provided as commercial service, the data is derived from the provider's own research and analysis efforts, such as data from honeypots they operate or informations mined from its costumers' systems. FireEye is a example of closed intelligence source.
### Vulnerability database
A vulnerability database (VDB) is a platform aimed at collecting, maintaining, and disseminating information about discovered computer security vulnerabilities. The database will customarily describe the identified vulnerability, assess the potential impact on affected systems, and any workarounds or updates to mitigate the issue.
### Public/private information sharing centers
An Information Sharing and Analysis Organization (ISAO) is any entity or collaboration created or employed by public- or private sector organizations, for purposes of gathering and analyzing critical cyber and related information in order to better understand security problems and interdependencies related to cyber systems, so as to ensure their availability, integrity, and reliability.
### Dark web
The dark web is the World Wide Web content that exists on darknets: overlay networks that use the Internet but require specific software, configurations, or authorization to access. Through the dark web, private computer networks can communicate and conduct business anonymously without divulging identifying information, such as a user's location. The dark web forms a small part of the deep web, the part of the Web not indexed by web search engines, although sometimes the term deep web is mistakenly used to refer specifically to the dark web.
### Indicators of compromise
Indicators of compromise (IoC) serve as forensic evidence of potential intrusions on a host system or network. These artifacts enable information security professionals and system administrators to detect intrusion attempts or other malicious activities. Security researchers use IoCs to better analyze a particular malware's techniques and behaviors. IoCs also provides actionable threat intelligence that can be shared within the community to further improve an organization's incident response and remediation strategies.
### Automated Indicator Sharing (AIS)
Automated Indicator Sharing (AIS) enables the real-time exchange of machine-readable cyber threat indicators and defensive measures to help protect participants of the AIS community and ultimately reduce the prevalence of cyber attacks. The AIS community includes private sector entities, federal departments and agencies, state, local, tribal, territorial (SLTT) governments, information sharing and analysis centers (ISAC), and foreign partners and companies.
#### Structured Threat Information eXpression (STIX)/Trusted Automated eXchange of Intelligence Information (TAXII)
##### Structured Threat Information eXpression (STIX)
Structured Threat Information Expression (STIX™) is a language and serialization format used to exchange cyber threat intelligence (CTI). STIX enables organizations to share CTI with one another in a consistent and machine readable manner, allowing security communities to better understand what computer-based attacks they are most likely to see and to anticipate and/or respond to those attacks faster and more effectively.
##### Trusted Automated eXchange of Intelligence Information (TAXII)
Trusted Automated Exchange of Intelligence Information (TAXII™) is an application layer protocol for the communication of cyber threat information in a simple and scalable manner. TAXII is a protocol used to exchange cyber threat intelligence (CTI) over HTTPS. TAXII enables organizations to share CTI by defining an API that aligns with common sharing models.
### Predictive analysis
Predictive analytics have the power to proactively help businesses identify security threats before they can do any damage. Instead of only focusing on the “infection stage” of an attack, enterprises can detect future incidents and maximize prevention.
### Threat maps 
Threat Map is a visual representation of the source and destination locations around the world for threats and attacks.
### File/code repositories
There are a number of file or code repositories on the internet that can give you even more intelligence about what to protect yourself against. Locations like GitHub are sometimes used by the hackers, to be able to put together the tools that they then use to attack your network.
## Research sources
### Vendor websites
To research about a product/software in particular.
### Vulnerability feeds
Some well known vulnerability feeds are the CVE data feed from MITRE or the national vulnerability database from NIST.
### Conferences
Attending conferences is a great way to stay up-to-date with cybersecurity and network with experienced and like-minded professionals.
### Academic journals
An academic journal or scholarly journal is a periodical publication in which scholarship relating to a particular academic discipline is published. Academic journals serve as permanent and transparent forums for the presentation, scrutiny, and discussion of research.
### Request For Comments (RFC)
A Request For Comments is a formal standards-track document developed in working groups within the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF).

## References
- https://www.cisa.gov/defining-insider-threats
- https://www.cybertalk.org/2021/02/09/geo-political-cyber-security-nation-state-actors-and-how-to-prevent-a-breach/
- https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/products/security/what-is-shadow-it.html
- https://www.techtarget.com/whatis/definition/threat-actor
- https://www.cyber-recon.com/threat-actor-types-and-attributes-flash-cards/
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/information_sharing_and_analysis_organization
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dark_web
- https://www.trendmicro.com/vinfo/us/security/definition/indicators-of-compromise
- https://www.cisa.gov/ais
- https://oasis-open.github.io/cti-documentation/
- https://convergetechmedia.com/predictive-analytics-future-cybersecurity/
- https://www.professormesser.com/security-plus/sy0-601/sy0-601-video/threat-intelligence/
- https://cve.mitre.org/cve/data_feeds.html
- https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/data-feeds
- https://www.splunk.com/en_us/blog/learn/cybersecurity-infosec-conferences-events.html
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Academic_journal
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/request_for_comments
