## Cloud-based vs. on-premises vulnerabilities
Both cloud-based and on-prem solutions are reasonably secure when configured properly. Cloud-based solutions move some of the responsibility for security away from the organization renting the cloud-based assets, and onto the organization providing the cloud services. In general, the service provider is responsible for ensuring the security of the cloud, and the organization renting the assets is responsible for the security of those assets.

## Zero-day
A zero-day is a software vulnerability either unknown to those who should be interested in its mitigation or known and without a patch to correct it. Until the vulnerability is mitigated, hackers can exploit it to adversely affect programs, data, additional computers or network.

## Weak configurations
Weak configuration refers to configuration settings that decrease the security of an asset such as a computer or network.
### Open permissions
Open permissions is a type of weak configuration where the principle of least privilege is breached, and access to data or applications isn’t properly restricted to only those who require it. Things like allowing anyone to view sensitive information, or to edit payroll databases can be considered examples of open permissions. Best practices to prevent this type of weak configuration include using role-based access control and implementing a “default-deny” scheme that requires access to be explicitly granted to resources.
### Unsecure root accounts
Root accounts (also known as “superuser” or “admin” accounts) are accounts that have essentially unlimited access to a computer. Having an attacker gain access to a root account on a computer is known as “Getting Owned” ( or pwned), and means that the attacker has gained full access to that computer. Best practices to prevent this type of weak configuration include heavily restricting access to root accounts, disabling remote login as root accounts, enforcing strong passwords for root accounts, and using non-root accounts for administration when possible, in accordance with the principle of least privilege.
### Errors
Hacking often involves some element of trial and error. Revealing Errors are errors that make this process easier for an attacker, by providing them with useful information. For example, an attacker attempting SQL injection would gain much more information from an error that included the name and version of the database software than from an error that said: “oops, something went wrong”. Best practices to prevent revealing errors include designing software in such a way that it does not reveal sensitive information if/when something goes wrong. This doesn’t mean the information can’t be logged, just that it should be treated as potentially sensitive information.
### Weak encryption
Weak encryption refers to the use of a weak encryption algorithm and/or flawed implementation of encryption to secure data. Algorithms with known mathematical vulnerabilities or that are weak to brute force are weak encryption, but an improper key generation or improper distribution and management of keys can also cause weak encryption. Best practices to prevent weak encryption include using up-to-date encryption algorithms that are still considered secure, and using implementations that have been “battle-tested”.
### Unsecure protocols
Not all protocols are created equal, and some are less secure than others. Weak configurations can allow Insecure Protocols to be used instead of secure alternatives, causing data to be transferred unencrypted and opening the possibility of interception and man-in-the-middle attacks. An example of an insecure protocol is HTTP, as opposed to secure HTTPS. Best practices to prevent using insecure protocols are to simply disallow the use of insecure protocols or to implement a default-deny schema that only allows secure protocols.
### Default settings
Many pieces of hardware and software ship with insecure default settings, which as the name implies, are settings that are insecure by default. In the worst cases, this can be something like web server software having “admin/admin” as the default administrator username and password. Many insecure default settings are not so obvious, but still pose a threat: Hacking toolkits often have tools designed to identify and exploit vulnerabilities created by insecure default settings. Best practices to prevent this type of weak configuration involve conducting a thorough review of the configuration settings for newly acquired assets and researching best practices for security for the particular asset being reviewed.
### Open ports and services
Open ports can cause or exacerbate security problems. For instance, if an unused, outdated piece of software is listening to a port, that software and port can become an attack vector. Unmonitored ports can also be used by attackers to move around and transfer data undetected. Especially for servers that face the outside world, only the ports that need to be open should be open.

## Third-party risks
Third-party risk is any risk brought on to an organization by external parties in its ecosystem or supply chain. Such parties may include vendors, suppliers, partners, contractors, or service providers, who have access to internal company or customer data, systems, processes, or other privileged information.
### Vendor management
Vendor management is a discipline that enables organizations to control costs, drive service excellence and mitigate risks to gain increased value from their vendors throughout the deal life cycle.
#### System integration
In general, the term ‘third-party integration’ means addition of necessary external data to an existing project using different APIs (Application Program Interfaces). Due to the third-party APIs the developers are able to build a new solution in a shorter period of time, using already existing components instead of creating a code for new ones from scratch.
#### Lack of vendor support
This term is typically used along side End-of-Life systems. When a product is EoL vendors stop providing support and patches which leaves your system vulnerable. Vendors will often stop providing support and EoL a device to push customers to buy a new version.

## Impacts
### Data breaches
An incident that involves sensitive, protected, or confidential information being copied, transmitted, viewed, stolen, or used by an individual unauthorized to do so. Exposed information may include credit card numbers, personal health information, customer data, company trade secrets, or matters of national security, for example.
### Identity theft
It refers to all types of crime in which someone wrongfully obtains and uses another person's personal data in some way that involves fraud or deception, tipically for economic gain.

## References
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/identity_fraud_and_identity_theft
- https://www.nist.gov/itl/smallbusinesscyber/cybersecurity-basics/glossary
- https://www.codecademy.com/article/cloud-based-vs-on-prem
- https://www.codecademy.com/article/weak-configurations
- https://www.upguard.com/blog/what-is-third-party-risk
- https://www.gartner.com/en/information-technology/glossary/vendor-management
- https://www.altamira.ai/blog/third-party-integration/
- https://www.cyber-recon.com/glossary/lack-of-vendor-support/
