## Threat hunting
Threat hunting is the process of proactively searching for threats that were not detected by normal security monitoring and techniques. Threat hunting is important because sophisticated threats (like APTs) can get past automated cybersecurity, so you can discover them soon and minimize the damage. This is done analysing data of the network and computer systems.
### Intelligence fusion
Intelligence Fusion is the process of searching and correlating data from many sources, in order to look for indicators that a threat is present. For example, if you know that a malware reaches out to a list of IP addresses using a certain protocol, you can use intelligence fusion with a SIEM to search all the network logs for traffic that matches those parameters.
### Threat feeds
Threat Feeds are feeds of threat intelligence that can be used for this type of threat hunting. Often, threat feeds contain information about Indicators of Compromise (IOC) that indicate a threat is present. The process of intelligence fusion can be automated by combining data logged from the security environment with data from threat feeds.
### Advisories and bulletins
Sources such as advisories or security bulletins are usually good sources for threat intelligence. Threat intelligence can be both that there is a threat (for example, a new type of malware), and specific information about threats (indicators of compromise that the malware creates).
### Maneuver
In cybersecurity, a maneuver is a strategy employed by hackers (both attacking and defending) to gain an advantage over the other side. An important maneuver for defensive hackers is stealth: While it may be relatively easy to kick an attacker out of a network temporarily, they can get right back in if the vulnerability they used isn’t fixed. What’s more, they may have obtained persistence using backdoors, providing even more ways for them to reenter. Until the security team has developed a remediation plan, it may be best to stay undetected and observe the attacker’s actions.

## Vulnerability scans
A vulnerability scanner is a computer program designed to assess computers, networks or applications for known weaknesss. These scanners are used to discover the weaknesses of a given system.
### False positives
An alert that incorrectly indicates that a vulnerability is present or a malicious activity is occurring.
### False negatives
An instance in which a security tool intended to detect a particular threat fails to do so or incorrectly classifying malicious activity as benign.
### Log reviews
The log review process should be performed regularly according to your requirements, regulatory or otherwise, and documented thoroughly in your logging policy. The review basically consists of comparing the new logs produced with the documented baseline. How you perform the comparison depends on the tools at your disposal and the type of systems being logged, among other concerns. Most of the time you simply try to determine whether or not a particular event or sequence of events have been previously logged in either the baseline or the different reviews.
### Credentialed vs. non-credentialed
A credentialed scan is a scan that uses login credentials on an asset it scans to get deeper access to the asset's data. A non-credentialed scan is a scan that does not use credentials to scan assets connected to a network. A credentialed scan identifies a multitude of detailed asset data compared to a non-credentialed scan, simply because it has deeper but still controlled access to the network assets.
### Intrusive vs non-intrusive
Non-intrusive scans simply identify a vulnerability and report on it so you can fix it. Intrusive scans attempt to exploit a vulnerability when it is found. This can highlight the likely risk and impact of a vulnerability, but may also disrupt your operational systems and processes, and cause issues for your employees and customers — so use intrusive scanning with caution.

## Syslog/Security Information and Event Management (SIEM)

### Syslog
A protocol enabling different appliances and software applications to transmit logs or event records to a central server. Syslog follows a client-server model and is the standard for logging of events from distributed systems. It runs on most operating systems and network equipament using port 514 (UDP) over TCP/IP. Newer implementations can use ṕort 1468 (TCP) for consistent delivery, TLS to encrypt messages sent to servers, MD-5 or SHA-1 for authentication and integrity, message filtering, automated log analysis, event response scripting and alternate message formats. The newer version of the server is called syslog-ng or rsyslog.

### Security Information and Event Management (SIEM)
SIEM is a solution (commonly as a software) that provides real-time monitoring and analysis of security alerts generated by network hardware and applications. It is also used to log security data and generate reports for compliance or auditing purposes.

#### User behavior analysis
User behavior analysis/analytics (UBA), sometimes called user entity behavior analytics (UEBA), is a category of software that helps security teams identify and respond to insider threats that might otherwise be overlooked.
#### Log aggregation
Log aggregation refers to the process of collecting data from various sources, whether they're business systems or security devices (like firewalls), and storing this data in a central location for easy access and analysis by IT team.

## Security Orchestration, Automation and Response (SOAR)
A class of security tools that facilitates threat and vulnerability management, security incident response and security operations automation. It allows companies to collect threat-related data from a range of sources and automate responses to the threat. It can scan security/threat data, Analyze it with machine learning, automate data enrichment and provision new resources. SOAR collects data and alerts security teams using a centralized platform similar to SIEM, but SIEM only sends alerts to security analysts. SOAR security, however, adds in automation and response to the investigation path by using automated playbooks or workflows and artificial intelligence (AI) to learn pattern behaviors, thus enabling it to predict similar threats before they happen.

## References
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vulnerability_scanner
- https://upstartcyber.com/cybersecurity-blog/what-is-log-aggregation/
- https://www.splunk.com/en_us/data-insider/user-behavior-analytics-ueba.html
- https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/cyberpedia/what-is-soar
- https://www.codecademy.com/article/threat-hunting
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/false_positive
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/false_negative
- https://www.techrepublic.com/article/a-log-review-process-for-detecting-security-incidents/
- https://www.lansweeper.com/updates/credentialed-scan/
- https://www.beyondtrust.com/resources/glossary/vulnerability-scanning
