## Penetration testing
A penetration test, or pen test, is an attempt to evaluate the security of an IT infrastructure by safely trying to exploit vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities may exist in operating system, services and applications flaws, improper configurations or risky end-user behavior.
### Privilege escalation
Occurs when an attacker is able to exploit a design flaw, a bug or a configuration oversight in a operating system or software application to gain illicit access of elavated rights or privileges, beyond what is intended or entitled for a user. Usually the goal is to gain administration or root levels privileges to perform unauthorized action. It can be a vertical escalation (going up to a administraion account) or horizontal escalation (lateral movement to a another user account).
### Persistence
Persistence consists of techniques that adversaries use to keep access to systems across restarts, changed credentials and other interruptions that could cut off their access. Techniques used for persistence include any access, action or configurations changes that let them maintain their foothold on systems, such as replacing or hijacking legitimate code or adding startup code.
### Pivoting
The act of an attacker moving from one compromised system to one or more other systems within the same or other organization. Pivoting is fundamental to the success of advanced persistent threat (APT) attacks.

## Passive and active reconnaissance
### War driving
Also called access point mapping, is the act of locating and possibly exploiting connections to wireless local area networks while driving around a city or elsewhere.

## Reference
- https://www.coresecurity.com/penetration-testing
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/pivot
- https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003/
