## Network reconnaissance and discovery
### tracert/traceroute
It is a network diagnostic command for displaying possible routes and measuring transit delays of packets across an Internet Protocol network. It trace the paths data packets take from their source to their destinations, allowing administrators to better resolve connectivity issues. Both are equivalents, but tracert is from windows and traceroute is from linux.
### nslookup/dig
Command-line tools for querying the Domain Name System to determine the IP address associated with a domain name, obtain the mail server settings for a domain and other DNS information.
### ipconfig/ifconfig
A utility in which you can display and mofify network interface and network devices configuration.
### nmap
It is a open-source network scanner that is used for discover hosts and services on a computer network by sending packets and analyzing their responses.
### ping/pathping
Utility used to determine if a host is reachable on an Internet Protocol network.
### hping
An open-source packet generator and analyzer for the TCP/IP protocol that is used for security auditing and testing of firewalls and networks.
### netstat
Netstat is a command-line network utility that displays network connections for TCP (incoming and outgoing), routing tables and a number of network interface and network protocol statistics. It is used for finding problems in the network and to determine the amount of traffic on the network as a performance measurement.
### netcat
It is a computer network utility for reading from and writing to network connections using TCP or UDP. The command is designed to be a dependable back-end that can be used directly or easily driven by other programs or scripts.
### arp
Utility for viewing and modifying the local Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) cache on a given host or server.
### route
Utility that is used to view and manipulate the IP routing table on a host or server.
### curl
A command line tool for transferring data to or from a server using various network protocols, including HTTP, FTP, IMAP, POP3, SCP, SFTP, SMTP, TFTP, Telnet, LDAP and others.
### theHarvester
A python script that is used to gather emails, subdomains, hosts, employee names, open ports and banners from different public sources like search engines, PGP key servers and SHODAN database.
### sniper
An automated scanner that can be used during a penetration test to enumerate and scan for vulnerabilities across a network.
### scanless
Utility that is used to exploitation website that can perform port scanning on the target host in more stealth-like manner, making harder to detect it.
### dnsenum
It is a tool for DNS enumeration, which is the process of locating all DNS servers and DNS entries for an organization. DNS enumaration will allow us to gather critical informations about the organization such as usernames, computer names, IP addresses and so on.
### Nessus
A proprietary vulnerability scanner that can remotely scan a computer or network for vulnerabilities. This is a infrastructure scanner, used to scan things like routers, switches, hosts and servers.
### Cuckoo
An open-source software for automating analysis of malwares and suspicious files. It will provide a detailed report outlining the behavior of the file when executed inside a realistic but isolated environment.

## File manipulation
### head
Head is a program on Unix and Unix-like operating systems used to display the beginning of a text file or piped data.
### tail
Tail is a program on Unix and Unix-like operating systems used to display the end of a text file or piped data.
### cat
Cat is a standard Unix utility that read files sequentially, writing the contents of the file to standard output.
### grep
Grep is a command-line utility for searching plain-text data sets for lines that match a regular expression or pattern.
### chmod
Chmod is a command-line utility used to change the access permissions of file system objects.
### logger
Logger is a utility that provides an easy way to add messages to var/log/syslog file from the command line or from other files.

## Shell and script environments
### SSH
Utility that supports encrypted data transfer between two computers for secure logins, file tranfer or general purpose connections.
### PowerShell
A task automation and configuration management framework from Microsoft, consisting of a command line shell and the associated scripting language.
### Python
An interpreted, high-level and general-purpose programming language.
### OpenSSL
It is a software library for applications that secure communications over computer networks against eavesdropping or need to identify the party at the other end.

## Packet capture and replay
### Tcpreplay
It is a suite of free open-source utilities for editing and replaying previously captured network packets.
### Tcpdump
It is a data-network packet analyzer computer program that runs under a command line interface. It allows the user to display TCP/IP and other packets being transmitted or received over a network to which the computer is attached.
### Wireshark
It is a popular network analysis tool to capture network packets and display them at a granular level for real-time or offline analysis.

## Forensics
### dd
A command line utility used to copy disk images using a bit by bit copying process
### Memdump
A command line utility used to dump system memory to the standard output stream by skipping over holes in memory maps.
### WinHex
A commercial disk editor and universal hexadecimal editor used for data recovery and digital forensics.
### FTK imager
It is a graphical user interface tool that lets you quickly assess electronic evidence to determine if further analysis with a forensic tool is needed.
### Autopsy
A digital forensics platform with graphical interface that combines a lot of other open-sources tools.

## Exploitation frameworks
### Metasploit (MSF)
It is a computer security project that provides information about security vulnerabilities and aids in penetration testing and IDS signature development.
### Browser Exploitation Framework (BeEF)
It is a penetration testing tool that focuses on the web browser.
## Password crackers
### Cain and Abel
It is a password recovery tool for Windows. It can recover many kinds of passwords using methods such as network sniffing, cracking passwords hashes by using methods such as dictionaty attacks, brute force and cryptanalysis attacks.
### John the Ripper
It is a open-source password cracking software tool with functions very similar to Cain and Abel, but is available to different operating systems.

## References
- https://cuckoosandbox.org/
