## Incident response plans
A set of tools and procedures that a security team can use to identify, eliminate and recover from a cybersecurity incident or threat.
## Incident response process 
### Preparation
It involves ensuring that the organization has a well-planned incident reponse procedure, a strong security posture. Be prepared before the incident occours. Compile a list of IT assets such as networks, servers and endpoints, identify their importance and which one are critical and holds sensitive data. Set up monitoring to have a baseline of normal activity. Determine which types of security events should be investigated and create a detailed response steps for common types of incidents.
### Identification
It involves the detection and analysis of data from IT system and security tools to recognize whether an event that occours is out of the baseline and should be classified as an incident.
### Containment
It is focused on isolating the incident before it can spread and cause further damage. Disconnect affected devices from the internet. Have short-term and long-term containment strategies ready. It's important to have a redundant system to help restore business operations.
### Eradication
It is the process of find and remove the root cause of the incident. This means securely remove the malware (for example, if it was the case), hardening the system and make updates.
### Recovery
It is focused on data restoration, system repair and re-enabling any servers or networks taken offline during the incident response and finally returning systems to production environment and recover normal business operations without fear of another incident.
### Lessons learned
It is the process of documenting the incident response process and finding ways to improve and adjust the incident response process.

## Exercises
Test your organization before a incident occours, but in test environments, not in production. Evaluate, document and discuss the response.
### Tabletop
It is the process of getting everyone around the table, presenting a particular scenario and then stepping through what would be done if this particular incident occoured, instead of actually performing the tasks. Then everyone can step through what they would be doing, discuss the process and search for flaws to improve the process.
### Walkthrough
It is a step beyond a tabletop exercise, in which everyone involved in an incident response scenario step through everything they would do and all the tools that they would use. It is useful to verify if everything is working properly and identify points to improve.
### Simulations
The process of pretending the a actual incident are occuring and see how the people in the organization respond to that. For exemple it could be a pishing campaign to see how many people would click on the phishing and maybe including additional security training.


## Attack frameworks
### MITRE ATT&CK
Maintained by MITRE Corporation, MITRE ATT&CK is a globally-accessible knowledge base of adversary tatics, techniques and common knowledge based on real-world observations. It is used as a fundation for the development of specific threat models and methodologies in private sector, in government and in cybersecurity product and service community.
### The Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis
In its simplest form, the model describes that an **adversary** deploys a **capability** over some **infrastructure** against a **victim**. These activities are called events and are the atomic features. Analysts or machines populate the model’s vertices as events are discovered and detected. The vertices are linked with edges highlighting the natural relationship between the features. By pivoting across edges and within vertices, analysts expose more information about adversary operations and discover new capabilities, infrastructure, and victims.
### Cyber Kill Chain
Developed by Lockheed Martin, the Cyber Kill Chain® framework is part of the Intelligence Driven Defense® model for identification and prevention of cyber intrusions activity. The model identifies what the adversaries must complete in order to achieve their objective. The seven steps of the Cyber Kill Chain® enhance visibility into an attack and enrich an analyst’s understanding of an adversary’s tactics, techniques and procedures.
#### Reconnaissance
Research, identification and selection of targets. Searching for weak points (search engines, web archives, public cloud services, domain name registries, WHOIS command, packet sniffers, network mapping, DIG command, ping, port scanners, etc).
#### Weaponization
Development of the malware to be executed in the target system that exploits the vulnerabilities discovered.
#### Delivery
The attacker identifies a vector to transmit the weaponized code to the target. It can be done via phishing, compromised user account, USB drive, website, etc.
#### Exploitation
Once it has been delivered, the weaponized code is executed to exploit the target vulnerability.
#### Installation
The weaponized code install an remote access point (like a backdoor) useble by the attacker to achieve persistence on the target system. In other words, the attacker can move in anda move out of the target's system/network withou running the risk of detection by reentering through other attack vector.
#### Command and Control
The weaponized code connects to a remote server that can be used to run commands in the target system remotely.
#### Actions and objectives
With the "hands on keyboard" access, the attacker can accomplish his original goals, such as data exfiltration, data destruction, encryption for ransom, cause a denial of service or spy.

## Stakeholder management
It is important to consider how an incident affects stakeholders inside and outside the organization, it might include executives, managers, regulatory bodies, law enforcement, human resources and public relations. 

## Communication Plan
The incident response team must have a secure method of communication for managing incidents. It is important to have an out-of-band communication, that means a second way to communicate to people/devices, for the case of the main communication method is compromised (the corporative email, for example). Another important point is to maintain an updated contact list (including phone numbers and email addresses) of the members of the incident response team and key persons of different areas in the organization and third-party partners.

## Disaster Recovery Plan
Disaster Recovery involves a set of policies, tools and procedures to enable the recovery or continuation of vital technology infrastructure and systems following a natural or human-induced disaster.

## Incident response team
Key people that are available to respond to any incident that meets the severity and priority thresholds set out by the incident response plan. It includes an incident response manager, security analysts, triage analyst, forensic analyst, threat researcher and cross functional supporters. This team is often called CSIRT (Computer Security Incident Response Team).

## References
- https://attack.mitre.org/
- https://www.activeresponse.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/diamond.pdf
- https://www.lockheedmartin.com/en-us/capabilities/cyber/cyber-kill-chain.html

