## SIEM dashboards
### Sensor
That is the end point that is being monitored and then will feed that data up into the SIEM. This includes operating systems, infrastructure devices and applications.
### Sensitivity
That means how much the system will be logging, that determines how much data will be sent to the SIEM. It is used to define which type of information is important to be logged and do not overloading the SIEM.
### Trends
Trends is used to identify changes over time and analyze graphcally all the informations logged.
### Alerts
Alerts can be used to notify when a specific event occours, for exemple too many failed login attempts.
### Correlation
The SIEM combines and compare all types of data coming from different devices and resources and give a better view of the events.

## Log files
Log files are files that records events that occours in a system and which user performed the action. This includes events such as transactions, errors, intrusions, login and logout. Log files are important to reconstruct an event after it occours. They should be saved to a different partition or an external server and should be archived and backed up to ensure they are available when required.
### Network
Is a log that contains records of events related to network infrastructure devices, such as routers and switches.
### System
Is a log that contains records of events such as a system shutdown and driver failures.
### Application
Is a log that contains records of events for the operating system and third-party applications.
### Security
Is a log that contains records of login/logout activity or other security-related events specified by the system's audit policy, such as policy changes, privilege use and account management.
### Web
Is a log that contains records of the events occouring in systems such as the proxy and web servers.
### DNS
Is a log that contains records of informations about the queries and requests (including from which IP address it is coming from) made of the DNS server.
### Authentication
Is a log that contains records of events related to the authentication to a device, system, file or server. It includes informations about successful and failed logins/logouts.
### Dump files
Is a log that records the memory contents associated to a application.
### VoIP and call managers
Is a log that contains records of inbound and outbound calls informations, including endpoint details and gateway communication. It can record the call itself too.
### Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) traffic
The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) is a signaling protocol used for initiating, maintaining, and terminating communication sessions that include voice, video and messaging applications. SIP is used in Internet telephony, in private IP telephone systems, as well as mobile phone calling over LTE (VoLTE). Its encrypted and secure version is the SIPS (Session Initiation Protocol Secure). Its logs contains records of events, including unusual numbers or country codes.


## Syslog/rsyslog/syslog-ng
Syslog is a standard for message logging. It allows the separation of the software that generates messages, the system that stores them and the software that reports and analyzes them. It is a protocol enabling different appliances and software applications to transmit logs or event records to a central server. Syslog follows a client-server model and is the standard for logging of events from distributed systems. It runs on most operating systems and network equipament using port 514 (UDP) over TCP/IP. Newer implementations can use ṕort 1468 (TCP) for consistent delivery, TLS to encrypt messages sent to servers, MD-5 or SHA-1 for authentication and integrity, message filtering, automated log analysis, event response scripting and alternate message formats. The newer version of the server is called syslog-ng or rsyslog.

## Jornalctl
A Linux command line utility used for querying and displaying logs from journald, the systemd logging service on Linux.

## NXlog
A multi-platform log collection and centralization tool that offers log processing features, including log enrichment and log forwarding. In concept NXlof is similar to syslog-ng or rsyslog but it is not limited to UNIX and syslog only.

## Bandwidth monitors
It gives the fundamental network statistics, for exemple, the percentage of network use over time. PRTG and Cacti are some examples of bandwidth monitors.

## Metadata
Metadata is the data that provides information about other data. For exemple, for a photo (the data), the metadata can be the hour or the location it was taken.
### Email
The metadata can be the hour an email was sent, who sent it, which server it came from.
### Mobile
The metadata can be when a call was made, how long it was, the GPS location.
### Web
The metadata can be which websites was visited, IP address used.
### File
The matadata can be who created it, when it was created, the size of the file.

## Netflow/sFlow
### Netflow
A feature that was introduced by Cisco that provides the ability to collect IP network traffic as it enters or exits an interface, including its point of origin, destination, volume and paths on the network.
### sFlow
It is like a open-source version of Netflow, it provides a means for exporting truncated packets, together with interface counters for the purpose of network monitoring.
## IPFIX
A universal standard of export for Internet Protocol flow information from routers, probes and other devices that are used by mediation systems, accounting/billing systems and network management systems to facilitate services such as measurement, accounting and billing by defining how IP flow information is to be formatted and tranferred from an exporter to a collector.

## References
- https://www.dnsstuff.com/bandwidth-monitor
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Session_Initiation_Protocol
