## Configuration changes
### Firewall rules
Firewall Rules examine the control information in individual packets. The Rules either block or allow those packets based on rules that are defined on these pages. Firewall Rules are assigned directly to computers or to policies that are in turn assigned to a computer or collection of computers.
### Data Loss Prevention (DLP)
Data Loss Prevention (DLP) is a type of software design to detect potential data breaches or data exfiltration transmissions and prevents them by monitoring, detecting and blocking sensitive data while in use (endpoint actions), in motion (network traffic) and at rest (data storage).
### Content filter/URL filter
It is the process that manages or screens access to specific emails or webpages. The goal is to block content that contains harmful information. Content filtering programs are commonly use by organizations to control content access through their firewall.

## Isolation
The ability to keep multiple instances of software separated so that each instance only sees and can affect itself. In an incident context, it means putting a compromised system onto a VLAN that only contains the system and disabling access to the Internet, for example.

## SOAR
SOAR (Security Orchestration, Automation and Response) is a class of security tools that facilitates threat and vulnerability management, security incident response and security operations automation. It allows companies to collect threat-related data from a range of sources and automate responses to the threat. It can scan security/threat data, Analyze it with machine learning, automate data enrichment and provision new resources.

### Playbook
A checklist of actions to perform to detect and respond to a specific type of incident.

### Runbook
An automated version of a playbook that leaves clearly defined interaction points for human analysis.

## References
- https://www.fortinet.com/resources/cyberglossary/content-filtering
- https://help.deepsecurity.trendmicro.com/10/0/Protection-Modules/Firewall/create-firewall-rules.html
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/isolation
