## Documentation/evidence
### Legal hold
It is a process that an organization uses to preserve all forms of potentially relevant information when litigation is pending or reasonably expected to occour. A computer or server could be seized as evidence, for exemple.
### Video
A movie record of the event, gather informations external to the computer and network, it can include security cameras in the location or self-made record with a smartphone.
### Admissibility
It refers to if a data can be used as an evidence in a court of law. It is important to ensure that the organization has legal authorization to take the data to be used as evidence and it uses the correct procedure and tools to collect it.
### Chain of custody
It refers to the chronological documentation that records the custody, control, transfer, analysis and disposition of materials, including physical and electronic evidence. It is important to ensure that no changes occoured after the data was collected and it maintains its integrity with everyone who contacts the evidence and avoid tampering. Hashes is a common way to verify integrity.
### Timelines of sequence of events
Some tools that can show the sequence of file system events within a source image in a graphical format.
### Tags
Tags and comments help you organize evidence and identify artifacts that are important to your investigation.

## Acquisition
### Order of volatility
Some medias are more volatile than others, so the data must be collected from the most volatile to the least volatile. The list below goes from the most volatile to the least volatile.
- CPU registers and CPU cache memory
- System memory (RAM), routing tables, ARP cache, process table, kernel statistics
- Temporary swap files/Temporary file systems
- Data on persistent mass storage (HDD, SDD, flash drive)
- Remote logging and monitoring data (like the SIEM)
- Physical configuration and network topology
- Archivel media (like backups)
### Swap/pagefile
A swap file, sometimes called a page file or paging file, is space on a hard drive used as a temporary location to store information when RAM is fully utilized.
### Snapshot
A record of the state of a running image, generally captured as the differences between an image and the current state.

## References
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/snapshot
- https://www.magnetforensics.com/docs/axiom/html/Content/en-us/reviewing-evidence/tagging/tagging-evidence.htm
- https://www.computerhope.com/jargon/s/swapfile.htm
