## Protocols
### Domain Name System
The Domain Name System is the hierarchical and decentralized naming system used to identify computers reachalbe through the Internet or other Internet Protocol networks. The resource records contained in the DNS associate domain names with other forms of information. it works over the port 53 using UDP.
### SSH
The Secure Shell Protocol is a cryptographic network protocol for operating network services securely over an unsecured network. Its most notable applications are remote login and command-line execution. SSH applications are based on a client-server architecture, connecting an SSH client instance with an SSH server. It works over the port 22 using either TCP or UDP.
### Lightweight Directory Access Protocol Over SSL (LDAPS)
Is a open, vendor-neutral, industry standard application protocol for accessing and maintaining distributed directory information services over internet protocol network. LDAP communicates unencrypted over the port 389 and encrypted (LDAPS) over the port 636.
### SSH File Transfer Protocol (SFTP)
SSH File Transfer Protocol is a network protocol that provides file access, file transfer and file management over any reliable data stream. It was designed by the Internet Engineering Task Force as an extension of the Secure Shell protocol version 2.0 to provide secure file transfer capabilities. It works over the port 22 using either TCP or UDP.
### Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)
Simple Network Management Protocol is an internet standard protocol for collecting, organizing and monitoring information about managed devices. SNMP v1 and v2 are insecure due to the use of community strings to access a device. SNMP v3 provides integrity, authentication and encryption of the messages being sent over the network.

## References
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_Shell
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SSH_File_Transfer_Protocol
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_Name_System
