## Endpoint protection

### Antivirus and Antimalware
An antivirus is a software designed to prevent, detect, scan and remove malware from a computer. Similarly, an antimalware also prevent, detect, scan and remove malware from a computer, but an antimalware is more focused in defends against more modern malwares. It protects the user from the latest, currently in the wild and even more dangerous threats. The best way to detect more malware is, for each context (different devices, machines), vender diversity.

### Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR)
Endpoint Detection and Response is a software that combines monitoring and collection of endpoint data with rules-based automated response and analysis capabilities.

### Endpoint DLP
An endpoint Data Loss Prevention system is a type of software designed to monitors the data in use on a computer and can stop file transfer or alert an admin of the occurrence. It can be set to detection mode or prevention mode.

### Next-Generation firewall (NGFW)
A NGFW is a part of the third generation of firewall technology, combining a traditional firewall with other network device filtering functions, such as an application firewall using in-line deep packet inspection (DPI), an intrusion prevention system (IPS). Other techniques might also be employed, such as SSL/TLS encrypted traffic inspection, website filtering, QoS/bandwidth management, antivirus inspection and third-party identity management integration.

### Host-based Intrusion Prevention System (HIPS)
A Host-based Intrusion Prevention System is a software application installed in a computer or server to monitor and analyzing the internals of a computing system as well as the network packets on its network interfaces in order to identify and block an incident or attack. The HIPS will log, alert and block everything that look suspicius using one of the following methods: signature-based (a specific string of bytes triggers an alert), policy (relies on specific declaration of the security police, for example, "No telnet allowed") or anomaly detection (triggers an alert if the current traffic is outside of the statistical average). HIPS can alert, log and also block suspicious activity.

### Host-based Intrusion Detection System (HIDS)
A Host-based Intrusion Detection System is a software application installed in a computer or server to monitor and analyzing the internals of a computing system as well as the network packets on its network interfaces in order to identify an incident or attack. The HIDS will log and alert everything that look suspicius using one of the following methods: signature-based (a specific string of bytes triggers an alert), policy (relies on specific declaration of the security police, for example, "No telnet allowed") or anomaly detection (triggers an alert if the current traffic is outside of the statistical average). HIDS can only alert and log suspicious activity.

### Host-based firewall
A host-based firewall is a firewall software that runs on an individual computer or device connected to a network. A host-based firewall protects you from viruses and malwares and controls the spread of these harmful infections throughout the network. Furthermore, host-based firewall protects you from untrusted devices that are on the same network. It works by applying a set of rules and policies against traffic that's attempting to come into or go out of our protected computer.

## Boot integrity
### Boot security/Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI)
#### Secure boot
Secure boot is a security stadard developd by members of the PC industry to help make sure that a device boots using only software that is trusted by the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM). When the PC starts, the firmware checks the signature of each piece of boot software. If the signatures are valid, the PC boots and the firmware gives control to the operating system. When enabled and fully configured, secure boot helps the computer resist attacks and infections from malware.
#### Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI)
The Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) is a publicly available specification that defines a software interface between an operating system and platform firmware. UEFI replaces the Legacy Basic Input/Output System (BIOS) boot firmware. UEFI can support remote diagnostics and repair of computers, even with no operating system installed.

### Measured boot
Measured Boot is a security standard where the measurements are recorded into TPM PCRs but the boot process can be allowed to complete. The measurements can be later read back from TPM and the Audit log of all the measurements can also be fetched.  Thus measured boot does not make any judgement about the integrity of the boot stages, but gives opportunity for an external verifier to inspect the TPM Audit Log and PCR values in a detailed manner to see which components were measured, what their measurements are etc., and make a decision. 

### Boot attestation
In boot attestation, software integrity measurements are immediately commited to during boot, thus relaxing the traditional requirement for secure storage and reporting.

## Database
### Tokenization
Tokenization is a technique to protect highly sensitive information by removing it from the database and substituting an equivalent, nonsensitive element into the database. This nonsensitive element is referred to as a token. The sensitive data is placed into a highly secured, encrypted vault.
### Hashing
In a database context, hashing is not only used to hash passwords to not expose the original passwords, but it is also used to calculate the direct location of a data record on the disk without using index structure (that might be inefficient to search in a huge database structure). 

## Application Security
Application security includes all tasks that introduces a secure software development life cycle to development teams. Its final goal is to improve security practices and, through that, to find, fix and prevent security issues within applications.
### Input validations
It is performed to ensure only properly formed data is entering the workflow in a information system, preventing malformed or malicious data from persisting in the database or triggering malfunction of various downstream components. Data from all potentially untrusted sources should be subject to input validation, including not only Internet-facing web clients but also backend feed over extranets, from suppliers, partners, vendors or regulators, each of which may be compromised on their own and start sending malformed data.
### Secure cookies
The secure attribute is an option that can be set by the application server when sending a new cookie to the user within an HTTP response. The purpose of the secure attribute is to prevent cookies from being observed by unauthorized parties due to the transmission of the cookie in clear text. To accomplish this goal, browsers which support the secure attribute will only send cookies with the secure attribute when the request is going to an HTTPS page. Said in another way, the browser will not send a cookie with the secure attribute set over an unencrypted HTTP request. By setting the secure attribute, the browse will prevent the transmission of a cookie over an unencrypted channel.
### Code signing
Is the process of digitally sigining executables and scripts to confirm the software author and guarantee that the code has not been altered or corrupted since it was signed. The process employs the use of cryptographic hash to validate authenticity and integrity.
### Allow list
An implementation of a default deny all or allow by exception policy across an enterprise environment, and a clear, concise, timely process for adding exceptions when required for mission accomplishments.
### Static code analysis
Static code analysis refers to the running of statatic code analysis tools that attempt to highlight possible vulnerabilities within static (non-running) source code.
#### Manual code review
The static code analysis can also be done by an application security analyst performing a code review searching for vulnerabilities.
### Dynamic code analysis
Dynamic code analysis refers to running the code and examining the outcome searching for vulnerabilities.
### Fuzzing
Fuzzing is a technique that involves providing invalid, unexpected, or random data as inputs to a software in an attempt to find improper error handling, improper input validation, system failures, memory leaks and cause unexpected behavior or crashes.

## Hardening
Hardening is the process of securing a system by reducing its surface of vulnerability, configuring the system securely, updating it, creating rules and polices and removing unnecessary applications and services.
### Registry
Protect the registry from anonymous access and disallow remote registry access if not required.

### Patch management
Patch management is the process of planning, testing, implementing and auditing of software updates.
### Third-party updates
The process of deploying patch updates to third-party applications that have been installed on one or more of your end-points. Third-party patching addresses bugs or vulnerabilities in the software that either affect its function or security.
### Auto-update
With the automatic updates feature, the system can automatically keep the computer up to date with the latest updates and enhancements. You no longer have to search for critical updates and information; It recognizes when you are online and uses your Internet connection to search for new updates available.

## Self-Encrypting Drive (SED)/Full-Disk Encryption (FDE)
### OPAL
Self-Encrypting Drive is a Hard Disk Drive (HDD) or Solid State Drive (SSD) designed to automatically encrypt and decrypt drive data without the need for user input or disk encryption software. OPAL is a set of specifications for self-encrypting drives developed by the Trusted Computing Group.

## Hardware root of trust
Root of trust is a concept that starts a chain of trust needed to ensure computers boot with legitimate code. If the first piece of code executed has been verified as legitimate, those credentials are trusted by the execution of each subsequent piece of code.

## Trusted Platform Module (TPM)
Trusted Platform Module is a computer chip designed to provide hardware-based, security-related function and can store passwords, certificates or encryption keys.

## Sandboxing
It is a isolated environment where you can run and test code (usually suspicious or malicuous code). Commonly used in a effort to mitigate system failures and security threats from spreading.

## References
- https://blog.convisoappsec.com/en/system-hardening-what-it-is-and-how-to-execute-it/
- https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/577.pdf
- https://www.dell.com/en-us/blog/hardware-root-trust/
- https://wiki.lfedge.org/display/EVE/Measured+Boot+and+Remote+Attestation
- https://www.kaseya.com/blog/2021/02/18/third-party-patching/
- https://owasp.org/www-community/controls/SecureCookieAttribute
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Next-generation_firewall
- https://www.javatpoint.com/dbms-hashing
- https://www.netwrix.com/windows_server_hardening_checklist.html
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/whitelisting
- https://www.ibm.com/cloud/architecture/architectures/security-data-tokenization-solution/
- https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/topic/description-of-the-automatic-updates-feature-in-windows-b691e39b-f529-dd99-6af4-990797112903
