## Network segmentation
### Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN)
A VLAN is any broadcast domain that is partitioned and isolated in a computer network at the data link layer. In this context, virtual, refers to a physical object recreated and altered by additional logic, within the local area network.
### Screened subnet (previously known as demilitarized zone)
A perimeter network or screened subnet separating an internal network that is more trusted from an external network that is less trusted.
### Extranet
A computer network that an organization uses for application data traffic between the organization and its business partners.
### Intranet
A computer network, especially one based on Internet technology, that an organization uses for its own internal (and usually private) purposes and that is closed to outsider.

## Virtual Private Network (VPN)
A VPN extends a private network across a public network and enables users to send and receive data across shared or public networks as if their computing devices were directly connected to the private network. It allows end user to create a tunnel over a untrusted network and connect remotely and securely back into the enterprise network.

### Always-on
User don't need to start and stop connections because the client computers are always connected to the network.

### Split tunnel vs full tunnel
Full tunnel means using your VPN for all your traffic, whereas split tunnel means sending part of your traffic through a VPN and part of it through the open network.

### Remote access vs site-to-site
Whereas remote access VPNs securely connect individual devices to a remote LAN, site-to-site VPNs securely connect two or more LANs in different physical locations.

### IPSec
Security for OSI Layer 3 (network). Commonly used in a site-to-site communication.

### Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol (L2TP)
L2TP is a tunneling protocol used to support virtual private networks or as part of the delivery of services by ISPs. It uses encryption only for its own control messages and does not provide any encryption or confidentiality of content by itself.

## Network Access Control (NAC)
Network access control is the act of keeping unauthorized users and devices out of a private network. Organizations that give certain devices or users from outside of the organization occasional access to the network can use network access control to ensure that these devices meet corporate security compliance regulations.
### Agent vs agentless
Agent NAC requires agent software to report end-system characteristics. Agentless NAC use scanning and network inventory techniques to discern those characteristics remotely.

## Network appliances

### Jump servers
A jump server, jump host or jump box is a system on a network used to access and manage devices in a separate security zone. A jump server is a hardened and monitored device that spans two dissimilar security zones and provides a controlled means of access between them.

### Proxy servers
It is a server application that acts as an intermediary between a client requesting a resource and the server providing that resource. This serves as a method to simplify or control the complexity of the resquest or additional benefits such as load balancing, privacy or security.


### Network-based Intrusion Detection System (NIDS)
A Network-based Intrusion Detection System is a piece of hardware installed in a network to monitor and analyzing all the traffic passing through the switch in order to identify an incident or attack. The NIDS will get a copy of all data and log and alert everything that look suspicius using one of the following methods: signature-based (a specific string of bytes triggers an alert), policy (relies on specific declaration of the security police, for example, "No telnet allowed") or anomaly detection (triggers an alert if the current traffic is outside of the statistical average).

### Network-based Intrusion Prevention System (NIPS)
A Network-based Intrusion Prevention System (NIPS) is a type of network security software that detects malicious activity on a network, report information about said activity and takes steps to block or stop the activity from occouring automatically. This is an expansion of capabilities over an "intrusion detection system".

### Hardware Security Module (HSM)
A physical computing device that safeguards and manages cryptographic keys and provides cryptographic processing. An HSM is or contains a cryptographic module.

### Firewalls
A firewall is a network security system that monitors and controls incoming and outgoing network traffic based on predetermined security rules. A firewall tipically establishes a barrier between a trusted network and an untrusted network, such as the Internet.
#### Web Application Firewall (WAF)
A WAF or Web Application Firewall helps protect web applications by filtering and monitoring HTTP traffic between a web application and the Internet. It tipically protects web applications from attacks such as cross-site forgery, cross-site scripting (XSS), file inclusion, SQL injection, among others.
#### Next-Generation Firewall (NGFW)
A Next-Generation Firewall (NGFW) is a network security device that provides capabilities beyonnd a traditional, stateful firewall. While a traditional firewall tipically provides stateful inspection of incoming and outgoing network traffic, a NGFW includes additional features like application awareness and control, integrated intrusion prevension and cloud-delivered threat intelligence.

#### Stateful
A stateful firewall inspects everything inside data packets, the characteristics of the data and its channels of communication. Stateful firewall examine the behavior of data packets and if anything seems off, they can filter out the suspicious data (even if that kind of behavior has not been manually set inputted by an administrator).
#### Stateless
Stateless firewalls make use of data packet's source, destination and other parameters to figure out whether the data presents a threat (IP address and port number). These parameters have to be entered by either an administrator or the manufacturer via rules they set beforehand.
#### Unified Threat Management (UTM)
Unified Threat Management (UTM) is an approach to information security where a single hardware or software installation provides multiple security functions, such as firewall, DLP, anti-malware, NIPS, content filtering and VPN.
#### Content/URL filter
A content/URL filter will restrict or control the content an internet user is capable to access. If a content is not allowed, it will block the external files containing JavaScript, images or web pages from loading in the browser. Usually it is used to block inappropriate content, like pornograph or games.
#### Hardware vs. Software
Software-based firewalls runs as a piece of software on a host or a server. Hardware-based firewalls are standalone devices that's actually an appliance that's installed into your network. It looks like another switch or another router that goes into your network stack.

## Access Control List (ACL)
Access Control Lists (ACLs) are a collection of permit and deny conditions, called rules, that provide security by blocking unauthorized users and allowing authorized users to access specific resources. ACLs can also provide traffic flow control, restrict contents of routing updates, and decide which types of traffic are forwarded or blocked. Normally ACLs reside in a firewall router or in a router connecting two internal networks.


## Port spanning/Port mirroring
Port mirroring is used on a network switch to send a copy of network packets seen on one switch port to a networking monitoring connection on another switch port.

### Network tap
A network tap is typically a dedicated hardware device that intercepts all data flowing between two points on the network. It copies all data passing through to its monitor port, enabling a third party to listen.

## References
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Layer_2_Tunneling_Protocol
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Firewall_(computing)
- https://www.fortinet.com/resources/cyberglossary/stateful-vs-stateless-firewall
- https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ddos/glossary/web-application-firewall-waf/
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proxy_server
- https://digital.com/best-vpn-services/what-is-a-network-intrusion-prevention-system/
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unified_threat_management
- https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/products/security/firewalls/what-is-a-next-generation-firewall.html
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/hardware_security_module_hsm
- https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E19859-01/820-3252-11/FP44ucgACL.html
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/demilitarized_zone
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/extranet
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/intranet
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jump_server
- https://www.vmware.com/topics/glossary/content/network-access-control.html
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_Access_Control#Agent_versus_agentless
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VLAN
