## Cryptographic protocols
### WiFi Protected Access 2 (WPA2)
WPA2 (WiFi Protected Access 2) is the second generation of the WiFi Protected Access wireless security protocol. It was designed to secure and protect WiFi networks by ensuring that data sent and received over the wireless network is encrypted with Advanced Encryption System (AES) and only people with your network password have access to it.
### WiFi Protected Access 3 (WPA3)
WPA3 was introduced to strengthen WPA2. The largest improvement in WPA3 is the removal of the Pre-Shared Key (PSK) exchange. Instead, it uses Simutaneous Authentication of Equals (SAE).
### Simutaneous Authentication of Equals (SAE)
Simutaneous Authentication of Equals (SAE) is a secure password-based authentication and password-authenticated key agreement method, providing foward secrecy.

## Authentication protocols
### Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)
EAP is an authentication framework frequently used in network and internet connections.
### Protected Extensible Authentication Protocol (PEAP)
PEAP is a protocol that encapsulates the EAP within an encrypted and authenticated Trasport Layer Security (TLS) tunnel. It uses certificates to mutual authentication.
### EAP-FAST
EAP-FAST (Flexible Authentication via Secure Tunneling) authenticates by means of a PAC (Protected Access Credential) instead of certificates, what provides faster re-authentication
### EAP-TLS
EAP Transport Layer Security (EAP-TLS) is an IETF open standard that uses the Transport Layer Securtiy (TLS) protocol, and is well supported among wireless vendors. EAP-TLS is the original, standard wireless LAN EAP authentication protocol.
### IEEE 802.1X
Devices attempting to connect to a LAN or WLAN require an authentication mechanism. IEEE 802.1X, an IEEE Standard for Port-Based Network Access Control (PNAC), provides protected authentication for secure network access. An 802.1X network is different from home networks in one major way; it has an authentication server called a RADIUS Server. It checks a user's credentials to see if they are an active member of the organization and, depending on the network policies, grants users varying levels of access to the network. This allows unique credentials or certificates to be used per user, eliminating the reliance on a single network password that can be easily stolen.

## Methods
### Pre-shared key (PSK) vs. Enterprise vs. Open
In pre-shared key (PSK) authentication method, everyone receives the same key/password previously to authenticate to the wireless network. In enterprise method, each user has its own credentials to access the wireless network. It allows to identify users and, if needed, remove access from a user without have to change everyone keys. An open wireless network do not require authentication.
### Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS)
It is a automated encryption setup for wireless network at a push of a button, but it is severely flawed and vulnerable.

## Installation considerations
### Wireless Access Point (WAP) placement
Physical access point placement plays a huge part in this installation process. Some good practices includes place the WAP where it will be used the most, place the WAP below a ceiling, avoid coverage overlap and consider the building materials.


## References
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extensible_Authentication_Protocol#EAP_Transport_Layer_Security_(EAP-TLS)
- https://solutionsreview.com/wireless-network/access-point-placement-6-guidelines-for-successful-installation/
- https://www.securew2.com/solutions/802-1x
