## Connection methods and receivers
### Infrared
Infrared connectivity is an old wireless technology used to connect two electronic devices. It uses a beam of infrared light to transmit information an so requires direct line of sight and operates only at close range.

## Mobile Device Management (MDM)
Centralized software solution that allows system administrator to create and enforces policies across its mobile devices.
### Application management
It is used to manage which applications will be allowed or disallowed, which versions will be used and updating the applications.
### Content management
It allows to manage how data is stored, shared and protected. It has features such as file sharing, data loss prevention and data encryption on the mobile device.
### Remote Wipe
Remote wipe is a security feature that allows a network administrator or device owner to send a command that deletes data to a computing device. It is primarily used to erase data on a device that has been lost or stolen, so that if the device falls into the wrong hands, the data won't be compromised.
### Geofencing
Geofencing is a location-based security feature that enables organizations to define security policies for securing organization's sensitive business data on Android and iOS devices.
### Biometrics
Mobile biometric authentication is an approach to multi-factor authentication (MFA) to verify an individual's identity that uses possession of a mobile device as a first factor and use of that device to verify a unique biometric identifier as a second factor.
### Context-aware authentication
Process to check the user's or system's attributes or characteristics prior to allowing it to connect. The most common type os context-aware authentication is limiting the time of day or location that the user can be log on.

### Storage Segmentation
Creating a clear separation between personal and company data on a single device. It can be a technical solution (creating a virtual environment, for exemple) or a procedure solution.

## Deployment models
### Bring Your Own Device (BYOD)
Bring Your Own Device refers to being allowd to use one's personally owned devices, rather than being required to use an officially provided device. BYOD introduces a lot of security issues to consider.
### Corporate-owned personally enabled (COPE)
A device owned by an enterprise and issued to an employee. Both the enterprise and the employee can install application onto the device.
### Choose Your Own Device (CYOD)
Choose Your Own Device refers to a policy in which a company will provide a set of pre-approved mobile devices and allow the employee to choose one. These devices are tipically configured with security protocols and business applications before the worker selects them.

### Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI)
VDI is a desktop virtualization technology wherein a desktop operating system run and is managed in a data center. The virtual desktop image is delivered over a network to an endpoint device, which allows the user to interact with the operating system and its applications as if they are running locally. 

## References
- https://www.manageengine.com/mobile-device-management/mdm-geofencing.html
- https://www.gsmarena.com/glossary.php3?term=irda
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/corporate_owned_personally_enabled
- https://www.aware.com/mobile-biometric-authentication/
