## Cloud security controls
### Network
#### Public and private subnets
The instances in the public subnet can send outbound traffic directly to the internet, whereas the instances in the private subnet can't. Instead, the instances in the private subnet can access the internet by using a network address translation (NAT) gateway that resides in the public subnet.
### Compute
### Security groups
A network security group contains security rules that allow or deny inbound network traffic to, or outbound network traffic from, several types of network resources. For each rule, you can specify source and destination, port, and protocol.
#### Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) endpoint
A VPC is a isolated private cloud hosted within a public cloud infrastructure and made available to a single cloud consumer.

## Solutions
### Cloud Access Security Broker (CASB)
Enterprise management software that sits between cloud service users and cloud service providers, designed to mediate access to cloud services, monitors activities and enforce security policies.
### Application Security
Application security includes all tasks that introduce a secure software development life cycle to development teams. Its final goal is to improve security practices and, through that, to find, fix and preferably prevent security issues within applications.
### Firewall considerations in a cloud environment
#### Open Systems Interconnections (OSI) Layers
The OSI model is a conceptual model created by the International Organization for Standardization which enables diverse communication systems to communicate usind standard protocols. The OSI provides a standard for different computer systems to be able to communicate with each other. Physical layer transmits raw bit stream over the physical medium. Datalink layer defines the format of data on the network. Network layer decides which physical path the data will take. Transport Layer transmits data using transmission protocols including TCP and UDP. Session layer maintains connections and is responsible for controlling ports and sessions. Presentation layer ensures that data is in a usable format and is where data encryption occurs. Application layer is the human-computer interaction layer, where applications can access the network services.

## References
- https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ddos/glossary/open-systems-interconnection-model-osi/
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_Scenario2.html
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_security
- https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/network-security-groups-overview
