## Authentication management
### Password vaults
A password vault, also known as password manager, is a computer program that allows users to store, generate, and manage their passwords for local applications and online services. A password manager assists in generating and retrieving complex passwords, storing such passwords in an encrypted database, or calculating them on demand. Types of password managers include locally installed software applications, online services accessed through website portals, and locally accessed hardware devices that serve as keys.
### HSM
A Hardware Security Module (HSM) is a physical computing device that safeguards and manages cryptographic keys and provides cryptographic processing.

## Authentication/Authorization
### EAP
A framework of protocols that allows for numerous methods of authentication including passwords, digital certificates and public key infrastructure.
### Password Authentication Protocol (PAP)
Used to provide authentication but it is not considered secure since it transmits the login credentials unencrypted.
### Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP)
CHAP is an evolution of PAP. It is used to provide authentication by using the user's password to encrypt a challenge string of random numbers.
### 802.1x
It is a standardized framework used for port-based authentication on wired and wireless networks. It provides an authentication mechanism to devices wishing to attach to a LAN or WLAN.
### RADIUS
Remote Authentication Dial In User Service (RADIUS) is an internet standard protocol that provides centralized administration of dial-up, VPN and wireless authenticatication, accounting and IP management services for remote access users in a distributed dial-up network. It operates at the application layer. Commonly uses port 1812 for authentication and port 1813 for accounting.
### Single Sign-On (SSO)
Is a authentication scheme that allows a user to log in with a single ID to any of several related, yet independent, software systems.
### Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML)
SAML stands for Security Assertion Markup Language. It is an XML-based open-standard for transferring identity data between two parties: an identity provider and a service provider. The identity provider performs authentication and passes the user's identity and authorization level to the service provider. The service provider trusts the identity provider and authorizes the given user to access the requested resource.
### Terminal Access Controller Access Control System Plus (TACACS+)
Cisco's TACACS+ is a proprietary version of RADIUS. It commonly uses port 49.
### Oauth
OAuth ("Open Authorization") is an open standard for access delegation, commonly used as a way for internet users to grant websites or applications access to their information on other websites but without giving them the passwords. This mechanism is used by companies such as Amazon, Google, Facebook, Microsoft, and Twitter to permit the users to share information about their accounts with third-party applications or websites.
### OpenID
OpenID is an open standard and decentralized authentication protocol promoted by the non-profit OpenID Fundation. It allows users to be authenticated by cooperating sites (known as relying parties) using a third-party identity provider service, eliminating the need for webmasters to provide their own ad hoc login systems and allowing users to log in to multiple unrelated websites without having to have a separate identity and password for each.
### Kerberos
Is a computer-network authentication protocol that provides two-way (mutual) authentication that works on the basis of tickets. It is designed to provide strong authentication for client/server applications by using secret-key cryptography. It runs over port 88.

## Access control schemes
### Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC)
An access control approach in which access is mediated based on attributes associated with subjects (requesters) and the objects to be accessed. Each object and subject has a set of associated attributes, such as location, time of creation, access rights, etc. Access to an object is authorized or denied depending upon whether the required correlation can be made between the attributes of that object and of the requesting subject.
### Rule-Based Access Control
Label-based access control that defines whether access should be granted or denied to objects by comparing the object label and the subject label.
### Role-based Access Control (RBAC)
A model for controlling access to resources where permitted action on resources are identified with roles rather than with individual subject identities.
### Mandatory Access Control (MAC)
Access control policy decisions are made by a central authority, not by the individual owner of an object. User cannot change access rights. An exemple of MAC occurs in military security, where an individual data owner does not decide who has a top-secret clearance, nor can the owner change the classification of an object from top-secret to secret.
### Discretionary Access Control (DAC)
The owner determine who should have access rights to an object and what those rights should be.

## References
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/discretionary_access_control
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/mandatory_access_control
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/role_based_access_control
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/attribute_based_access_control
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/hardware_security_module_hsm
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OAuth
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Password_manager
- https://auth0.com/blog/how-saml-authentication-works/
