## Configuration Management
### Baseline configuration
Baselining is the process of measuring changes in networking, hardware, software and applications. The idea is define what is normal to detect what is not normal.

## Data protection

### Data Loss Prevention (DLP)
Data Loss Prevention (DLP) is a type of software design to detect potential data breaches or data exfiltration transmissions and prevents them by monitoring, detecting and blocking sensitive data while in use (endpoint actions), in motion (network traffic) and at rest (data storage).

### Encryption
Encryption is the process of taking a plain text, like a text message or email, and scrambling it into a unreadable format, called cypher text. It is done using one or more mathematical techniques, along with a secret key used to decrypt the information. Ideally, only the person with the secret key can decrypt the information and read it, this ensures confidentiality.
### At rest
Data at rest means data that is housed physically on computer data storage in any digital form. Data at rest includes both structured and unstructured data.

### Application Programming Interface (API) considerations
API is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other. In contrast to a user interface, which connects a software to a person, an application programming interface connects a software to another software. It enables software developers to access functions of another application, making possible to integrate different softwares.


## Site resiliency
It consists of having offices/resources in different locations in case of disaster or unavailability of one of the sites.
### Hot site
A near duplicate of the original site of the organization that can be up and running within minutes.
### Cold site
A site that just has tables, chairs, bathrooms and possibly some technical items like phones and network cabling, but has no configured computers and servers and it can take some days to re-establish normality.
### Warm site
A site that has computers, phones and servers, but they might require some configuration before user can start working.

## Deception and disruption
### Honeypots
Generally, a honeypot consists of data (for example, in a network site) that appears to be a legitimate part of the site and contains informations or resources of value to attackers. It is actually isolated, monitored and capable of blocking or analyzing the attackers.
### Honeynets
A honeynet is a decoy network that contains one or more honeypots. It looks like a real network and contains multiple systems but is hosted on one or only a few servers, each representing one environment.
### DNS sinkhole
A DNS sinkhole is a method of redirecting traffic from one DNS server to another. It can be used for security purposes, such as malware detection or for research purposes. By using a DNS sinkhole, you can direct all traffic for a given domain name to a specific server (it can be a non-existent server through the null interface, to stop DDoS attacks), which can be monitored for malicious activity.

## References
- https://www.netacea.com/glossary/dns-sinkhole/
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Honeypot_(computing)
- https://www.imperva.com/learn/application-security/honeypot-honeynet/
