## Cloud models
### Infrastructure as a service (IaaS)
It is a type of cloud computing service that offers physical computing resources, storage, operating system and network resources on demand on a pay-as-you-go basis. It is used to develop your own software, web application or service.
### Platform as a service (Pass)
Like Iaas, PaaS includes infrastructure (servers, storage and networking), but also middleware, development tools (like a apache web server, programming language), business intelligence service, database management system (like a MySQL) and more. It allows you to avoid the expense and complexity of buying and manage software licenses, the underlying application infrastructure and middleware, container orchestration such as Kubernetes or the development tools and other resources. 
### Software as a service (SaaS)
Provides all  the hardware, operating system, software and applications needed for a complete service to be delivered. It is a way of delivering applications remotely over the internet instead of locally on machines.
### Anything as a service (XaaS)
It describes a general category of services related to cloud computing and remote access. It recognizes the vast number of products, tools and technologies that are now delivered to users as a servece over the internet.
### Public cloud
It is defined as cloud computing services offered by third-party providers over the internet, making them available to anyone who wants to use or purchase them.
### Community cloud
A community cloud is a collaborative effort in which infrastructure, resources and costs are shared among several different organizations who have common concerns and service needs.
### Private cloud
Also called internal or corporate cloud, it is when an organization creates its own cloud environment that only it can utilize as an internal enterprise resource. A private cloud should be chosen when security is more important than cost.
### Hybrid cloud
A hybrid cloud combines the public and the private cloud environments.

## Cloud Service Providers
A cloud service provider is a third-party company offering a cloud-based platform, infrastructure, application, or storage services. Much like a homeowner would pay for a utility such as electricity or gas, companies typically have to pay only for the amount of cloud services they use, as business demands require. Businesses can take advantage of scalability and flexibility by not being limited to physical constraints of on-premises servers, the reliability of multiple data centers with multiple redundancies, customization by configuring servers to your preferences, and responsive load balancing that can easily respond to changing demands. Though businesses should also evaluate security considerations of storing information in the cloud to ensure industry-recommended access and compliance management configurations and practices are enacted and met.

## Managed service provider (MSP)/managed security service provider (MSSP)
### Managed service provider (MSP)
Managed services is the practice of outsourcing the responsibility for maintaining, and anticipating need for, a range of processes and functions, ostensibly for the purpose of improved operations and reduced budgetary expenditures through the reduction of directly-employed staff. It is an alternative to the break/fix or on-demand outsourcing model where the service provider performs on-demand services and bills the customer only for the work done.
### Managed security service provider
An managed security service provider (MSSP) provides outsourced monitoring and management of security devices and systems. Common services include managed firewall, intrusion detection, virtual private network, vulnerability scanning and anti-viral services. MSSPs use high-availability security operation centers (either from their own facilities or from other data center providers) to provide 24/7 services designed to reduce the number of operational security personnel an enterprise needs to hire, train and retain to maintain an acceptable security posture.

## On-premises vs. off-premises
On-premise means the traditional approach where all your data and applications are hosted in-house. As an owner, you go ahead and maintain your servers locally within the network, buy licensed software and take care of security. You own your servers as a company.
Off-premise means using cloud providers premises and not your own.

## Fog computing
Fog computing is a horizontal, physical or virtual resource paradigm that resides between smart end-devices and traditional cloud computing or data center, providing a substancial amount of computation, storage, and communication locally and routed over the Internet.

## Thin client
A common thin client definition is a computer that uses resources housed inside a central server as opposed to a hard drive. A thin client connects to a server-based environment that hosts the majority of applications, memory, and sensitive data the user needs. Thin clients can also connect to servers based in the cloud. In many instances, a thin client computer is an effective replacement for a personal computer (PC). It can also be a superior solution, particularly because it enables an IT team to set up a virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI). With a thin client setup, you can acquire new workstations for employees working remotely or in-house at a lower cost than if you give each one their own desktop. Further, you have the option to centralize your security solution by protecting the server the various thin clients connect to.

## Containers
A container is a standard unit of software that packages up code and all its dependencies so the application runs quickly and reliably from one computing environment to another.

## Infrastructure as code
Infrastructure as Code (IaC) is the management of infrastructure (networks, virtual machines, load balancers, and connection topology) in a descriptive model, using the same versioning as DevOps team uses for source code. Like the principle that the same source code generates the same binary, an IaC model generates the same environment every time it is applied. IaC is a key DevOps practice and is used in conjuction with continuous delivery.
### Software-defined network (SDN)
Software-defined network (SDN) is an approach to IT infrastructure that abstracts networking resources into a virtualized system. SDN separates network forwarding function from network control functions with the goal of creating a network that is centrally manageable and programmable. SDN allows an IT operations team to control network traffic in complex networking topologies through a centralized panel instead of handling each network device manually.

## Serverless architecture
Serverless architecture is a cloud-native development model that allows you to build and run applications and services in a virtualized runtime container without having to manage servers. Everything in serverless is developed as a function or microservice. The underlying architecture is managed by the cloud service provider.

## Resource policies
Resource-based policies are attached to a resource. With resource-based policies, you can specify who has access to the resource and what action they can perform on it.

## Virtualization
Virtualization is the creation of a virtual resource. It can be things like computer hardware plataforms, servers, desktops, file systems, hard drives or networks.

### Virtual Machine
A virtual machine is the emulation of a computer system, providing the funcionality of physical computer. It can be a system virtual machine (providing the funcionality to run a entire operating system) or a processor virtual machine (designed to run a single computer program, like a server or web browser).

### Sprawl avoidance
Virtual machine sprawl is one of the biggest concerns facing many companies using desktop or server virtualization. The ability to quickly create virtual machines without the disciplines and controls of the physical world results in machines being provisioned unnecessarily without proper justification and approval, over-provisioned (too much CPU, memory, or disk), or consuming resources well after they no longer are required.

### VM escape protection
Virtual machine escape is the process of a program breaking out of the virtual machine on which it is running and interacting with the host operating system. A virtual machine is a "completely isolated guest operating system installation within a normal host operating system".

## References
- https://www.docker.com/resources/what-container/
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_machine_escape
- https://www.vmware.com/content/dam/digitalmarketing/vmware/en/pdf/techpaper/vmware-controlling-virtual-machine-sprawl-white-paper.pdf
- https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/devops/deliver/what-is-infrastructure-as-code
- https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/hyperconverged-infrastructure/what-is-software-defined-networking
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fog_computing
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_identity-vs-resource.html
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Managed_services
- https://www.gartner.com/en/information-technology/glossary/mssp-managed-security-service-provider
- https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/cloud-computing-dictionary/what-is-a-cloud-provider/
