## Environment
### Development
The development environment (dev) is the environment in which changes to software are developed, most simply an individual developer's workstation.
### Test
The purpose of the test environment is to allow human tester to exercise new and changed code via either automated checks or non-automated techniques.
### Staging
A stage, staging or pre-production environment is an environment for testing that exactly resembles a production environment. It seeks to mirror an actual production environment as closely as possible and may connect to other production services and data, such as databases.
### Production
The production environment is also known as live, particularly for servers, as it is the environment that end users directly interact with.

## Secure coding techniques
### Stored procedures
A stored procedure is a prepared SQL code that you can save, so the code can be reused over and over again just calling it and executing it. You can also pass parameters to a stored procedure, so that the stored procedure can act based on the parameters values that are passed.
### Use of third-party libraries and software development kits (SDKs)
The use of thrd-party libraries must come from trusted sources to ensure that no malicious code is being added. Furthermore, even to trusted third-party libraries it must be always verified if the version used has no known vulnerabilities and if it still supported.

## Automation/scripting
### Continuous integration
Continuous integration is a DevOps software development practice where developers regularly merge their code changes into a central repository, after which automated builds and tests are run. Continuous integration most often refers to the build or integration stage of the software release process and entails both an automation component and a cultural component. The key goals of continuous integration are to find and address bugs quicker, improve software quality, and reduce the time it takes to validate and release new software updates.

### Continuous delivery
Continuous delivery is the ability to get changes of all types - including new features, configuration changes, bug fixes and experiments - into production, or into the hands of users, safely and quickly in a sustainable way.

## Elasticity
Elastic computing is the ability to quickly expand or decrease computer processing, memory, and storage resources to meet changing demands without worrying about capacity planning and engineering for peak usage. Tipically controlled by system monitoring tools, elastic computing matches the amount of resources allocated to the amount of resources actually needed without disrupting operations. With cloud elasticity, a company avoid paying for unused capacity or idle resources and doesn't have to worry about investing in the purchase or maintenence of additional resources and equipament.

## Version Control
It is a class of systems responsible for managing changes to computer programas, documents, large web sites or other collection of information. Version control is a component of software configuration management. Semantic versioning of a software can be represented by numbers in the Major.Minor.Patch format. Patch version makes backwards compatible bug fixes. Minor version add functionality in a backwards compatible manner. Major version makes imcompatible changes.

## References
- https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_stored_procedures.asp
- https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/cloud-computing-dictionary/what-is-elastic-computing/
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deployment_environment
- https://aws.amazon.com/devops/continuous-integration/
- https://continuousdelivery.com/
