## Authentication methods
### Directory services
A directory service is a database for storing and maintaining information about users and resources. Directory Services are often referred to as directories, user stores, Identity Stores, or LDAP Directory, and they store information such as usernames, passwords, user preferences, information about devices, and more. Network and system administrators use directory services to onboard users, manage access privileges and monitor and control access to applications and infrastructure resources. For example, when a user accesses an application, that application will reference the directory service to ensure the user is legitimate and has the proper privileges to access and use that application. Directory services are fundamental elements of an Identity Security strategy. Many identity and access management (IAM) solutions use directory services in conjunction with single sign-on (SSO), multi-factor authentication (MFA) or identity lifecycle management functionality.
### Federation
A single identity is created for a user and shared with all of the organizations in a federeation.
### Attestation
The process of providing a digital signature for a set of measurements securely stored in hardware, and then having the requester validate the signature and the set of measurements.
### Technologies
#### Time-based one-time password (TOTP)
Is a computer algorithm that generates a one-time password that uses the current time as a source of uniqueness.
#### HMAC-based one-time password (HOTP)
Is a computer algorithm that generates a one-time password that is computed from a shared secret and is synchronized between the client and the server every time it is used.
### Smart card authentication
Among some of the popular uses for smart cards is the ability to control access to computer systems. To operate the owner must have the smart card and they must know the PIN to unlock the card. This provides a higher degree of security than single-factor authentication such as just using a password.

## Biometrics
Biometrics are body measurements and calculations related to human characteristics. Biometric authentication is used as a form of identification and access control.
### Fingerprint
Fingerprints are the most commonly used biometric trait worldwide.  Fingerprints are used to enroll populations into social services, allow individuals to access personal electronic devices, allow building and site access, and as a means for criminal investigation.  Fingerprint recognition systems (verification (1:1 comparison) and identification (1:N comparison)) are a commodity, creating a need to develop the metrology to assess the performance of the different components of the fingerprint recognition/identification process.
### Retina
A retinal scan is a biometric technique that uses unique patterns on a person's retina blood vessels. It is not to be confused with other ocular-based technologies: iris recognition, commonly called an "iris scan", and eye vein verification that uses scleral veins.
### Iris
Iris recognition is an automated method of biometric identification that uses mathematical pattern-recognition techniques on video images of one or both of the irises of an individual's eyes, whose complex patterns are unique, stable, and can be seen from some distance.
### Gait analysis
Gait analysis is the sistematic study of animal locomotion, more specifically the study of human motion, using the eye and the brain of observers, augmented by instrumentation for measuring body movements, body mechanics, and the activity of the muscles.
### False Acceptance
The probability that the system incorrectly matches the input pattern to a non-matching template in the database. It measures the percent of invalid inputs that are incorrectly accepted.
### False Rejection
The probability that the system fails to detect a match between the input pattern and a matching template in the database. It measures the percent of valid inputs that are incorrectly rejected.
### Crossover error rate
The rate at which both acceptance and rejection error are equal. In general, the device with the lowest crossover error rate is the most accurate.

## Multifactor authentication (MFA) factors and attributes
Multifactor authentication is the use of two or more authentication factors to prove a user's identity.
### Something you know
The users are requested to prove knowledge of a secret, such as a password, a pin or a combination to a lock.
### Something you have
The users are requested to prove possession of something that uniquily identifies them, such as a driver's license, a token device or a smart card.
### Something you are
The users are requested to prove some of his characteristics, usually biometrics methods, such as fingerprint, face or iris recognation.
### Somewhere you are
The users locations is used to ensure that you are who you claims to be.
### Something you can do
The users are requested to perform something that uniquily identifies them, such as a name signature or draw a picture.


## Authentication, authorization and accounting (AAA)

### Authentication
Authentication is the process to verify the identity of a person or something, to confirm whether someone or something is who it claims to be. The methods of authentication can be something you know (email and password), something your are (biometrics like fingerprints or retina), something you have (ID card or driver's license), something you do (the way you speak or sign your name) or somewhere you are (GPS location).

### Authorization
Authorization is the process of defining the rights, permissions or privilegies of someone to access data, locations or resources, based on who the person is. In other words, authorize is to define an access policy.

### Accounting
Accounting ensures the tracking of data, computer usage and network resources is maintained. Usually puting in a log file things like internet connections, people who tried to log on to a website or system. Log exists to keep track of all of the various things that are being done. This is important in an incident to check what happened, who did what and when. Accounting ensures non-repudiation in cases like that, because you can proof that someone did something.

## References
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biometrics
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gait_analysis
- https://www.nist.gov/mml/materials-measurement-science-division/security-technologies-group/fingerprints
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Retinal_scan
- https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/security-smart-cards
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iris_recognition
- https://www.cyberark.com/what-is/directory-services/
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/attestation
