## Redundancy
It means having two or more ways to provide the same thing. Redundancy helps ensure fault-tolerance to continue operations.
### Disk
#### Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks (RAID) levels
RAID is a data storage virtualization technology that combines multiple physical disk drive components into one or more logical units for the purpose of data redundancy, performance improvement or both.
##### RAID 0
Consists of stripping data across multiple disk to increase read and write performance. Because stripping distributes the contents of each file among all drives in the set, the failure of any drive causes the entire RAID 0 volume and all files to be lost.
##### RAID 1
Consists of data mirroring. Data is written identically to two or more drives. It provides redundancy and fault-tolerance, the array continues to operate as long as at least one drive is functioning.
##### RAID 10
Consists of a striped RAID of two mirrored RAIDs (combines RAID 1 and RAID 0).
##### RAID 5
Consists of block-level striping with distributed parity.

### Network
#### Network Interface Card (NIC) teaming
NIC is a computer hardware component that connects a computer to a computer network. NIC teaming is the process of combining multiple NICs together for performance, load balacing and redundancy reasons.
#### Load balancer
It is a device that acts as a reverse proxy and distributes network or application traffic across a number of servers. Load balance is used to increase capacity (concurrent users) and reliability of networks or applications.

### Power
An enclosure that provides two or more complete power supplies.
#### Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS)
A device with an internal battery that allows connected devices to run for at least a short time when the primary power source is lost. It combines the funcionality of a surge protector with that of a battery backup.
#### Generator
An emergency power system used when there is outage of the regular electric grid power.

## Replication
### Storage area network
SAN to SAN replication is a service where a centralized repository of stored or archived data is duplicated to another centralized data repository in real-time. Storage are network replication provides an extra measure of redundancy in case a main storage system fails.

## Backup Types
### Full backup
All of the contents of a drive are backed up.
### Incremental backup
Only copies data that has been changed or created since the previous backup activity was conducted. It is used when the amount of data that has to be protected is too voluminous to do a full backup of that data everyday.
### Differential backup
Only copies the files that have changed since the last full backup was performed.
### Snapshot
It copies the state of a system at a particular point in time. This type of backup is primarily used to capture the entire operating system image, including all applications and data.
### Tapes
#### 10 Tape Rotation
Each tape is used  once per day for two weeks and then the entire set is reused.
#### Grandfather-father-son
Three sets of backup tapes are defined as the son (daily), the father (weekly) and the grandfather (monthly).
#### Towers of Hanoi
Three sets of backup tapes (like grandfather-father-son) that are rotated in a more complex system.

### Network Attached Storage (NAS)
Network Attached Storage (NAS) is a file-level storage architecture that makes stored data more accessible to networked devices. NAS gives networks a single access point for storage.

### Storage Area Network (SAN)
Storage Area Network is a network designed to provide access to block-level data storage. It may consist of NAS devices.

### Offsite storage
Offsite storage is any data storage resource or facility that is not physically present inside the organization. It is a physically remote data storage resource that is mainly used to provide data backup and recovery services.

## High availability
Availability describes how well a system provides useful resources over a set period of time. High availability guarantees an absolute degree of functional continuity within a time window expressed as the relationship between uptime and downtime.
### Scalability
It's the property of a system or application to handle bigger amounts of work, or to be easily expanded, in response to increased demand for network, processing, database access or file system resources.


## References
- https://webhosting.net/benefits-san-san-replication/
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RAID
- https://www.techopedia.com/definition/8656/offsite-storage
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/ups
- https://dzone.com/refcardz/scalability
