## Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV)
Also known as video surveillance, is the use of video cameras to transmit a signal to a specific place, on a limited set of monitors.
## Locks
It is a mechanical or electronic fastening device that is released by a physical object (suck as key, keycard, fingerprint, RFID card, security token or coin), by supplying secret information (such as a number or letter permutation or password).
### Biometrics
It uses human characteristics to unlock, such as fingerprint, retine scan or facial recognation.
### Electronic
It can use things like a RFID card or a pin to unlock.
### Physical
It usually use a key to unlock.
### cable locks
It is a cable that is unlocked by a key or a pin.

## Fire suppression
Fire suppression systems are used to extinguish, control, or in some cases, entirely prevent fires from spreading or occurring.

## Faraday cage
A Faraday cage or Faraday shield is an enclosure used to block electromagnetic fields. A Faraday cage may be formed by a continuous covering of conductive material, or by a mesh of such materials.

## Screened subnet (previously known as demilitarized zone)
A perimeter network or screened subnet separating an internal network that is more trusted from an external network that is less trusted.

## Protected cable distribution
Secured system of cables management to ensure that the wired network remains free from eavesdropping, data emanations, eletromagnetic field interferations, wire tapping and other threats.

## Secure areas
### Hot aisle
In hot aisle containment, the servers are positioned not with their backs to the outside of the enclosure, but back-to-back. This setup creates an aisle between the servers where heat can escape.
### Cold aisle
Cold aisles work by efficiently directing cold air to the front of the servers, where it is pulled through the servers into a warm aisle or a space near a warm air return to be re-cooled.

## Secure data destruction
### Burning
Is the last and less commonly used physical destruction method of disposing data. The advantage of this method is that it removes all the data thus providing absolute security of data.
### Shredding
Is the process of data destruction by shredding, destroying the drivers platters, mechanisms and electronic components rendering the data virtually unrecoverable.
### Pulping
It only applies to data on paper. Is the process of turning paper into a liquid slurry.
### Degaussing
Is the process of eliminating unwanted data stored in disk media by exposing the hard drive to a powerful magnetic field.
## References
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Closed-circuit_television
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fire_suppression_system
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Faraday_cage
- https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/demilitarized_zone
- https://datacenterenclosure.com/hot-and-cold-aisles-in-your-data-center-what-to-know/
