## Cipher suites
### Stream
A stream cipher is a symmetric key cipher where plaintext digits are combined with a pseudorandom cipher digit stream. In a stream cipher, each plaintext digit is encrypted one at a time with the corresponding digit of the keystream, to give a digit of the ciphertext stream.
### Block
A block cipher is a determinisc algorithm operating on fixed-length groups of bits, called blocks. They are specified elementary components in the design of many cryptographic protocols and are widely used to encrypt large amounts of data, including in data exchange protocols. 

## Symmetric vs. asymmetric
Symmetric encryption involves the use of one key for both encryption and decryption. Some examples of symmetric algorithms are DES, 3DES, IDEA, AES, Blowfish, Twofish, RC4, RC5 and RC6. Asymmetric encryption works with a pair of keys. The beginning of asymmetric encryption involves the creation of a pair of keys, one of which is a public key and the other which is a private key. The public key is accessible by anyone, while the private key must be kept a secret from everyone but the creator of the key. This is because encryption occurs with the public key, while decryption occurs with the private key. The recipient of the data will provide the sender with the public key, which will be used to encrypt the data. Some examples of asymmetric algorithms are Diffie-Hellman, RSA and ECC.

### References
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stream_cipher
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Block_cipher
- https://www.encryptionconsulting.com/education-center/symmetric-vs-asymmetric-encryption/
